ddb/db_access.c		optional ddb
ddb/db_aout.c		optional ddb
ddb/db_break.c		optional ddb
ddb/db_command.c	optional ddb
ddb/db_examine.c	optional ddb
ddb/db_expr.c		optional ddb
ddb/db_input.c		optional ddb
ddb/db_lex.c		optional ddb
ddb/db_output.c		optional ddb
ddb/db_print.c		optional ddb
ddb/db_ps.c		optional ddb
ddb/db_run.c		optional ddb
ddb/db_sym.c		optional ddb
ddb/db_trap.c		optional ddb
ddb/db_variables.c	optional ddb
ddb/db_watch.c		optional ddb
ddb/db_write_cmd.c	optional ddb
../ttd/ttd_server.c        optional ttd
../ttd/ttd_stub.c          optional ttd
../ttd/ttd_thread.c        optional ttd
../ttd/ttd_i386.c        optional ttd
freebsd_subr.c	optional standalone
freebsd_netsubr.c	optional standalone
freebsd_data.c	optional standalone
sal.c	optional standalone
cyclecount.c	optional standalone
# SAL ONLY ../salhook.c	optional  standalone
../salnet/arp.c	optional standalone
../salnet/bootp.c	optional standalone
../salnet/salnet.c	optional standalone
../salnet/salnfs.c	optional standalone
../salnet/tftp.c	optional standalone
../salnet/dns.c	optional standalone
../salnet/res_comp.c	optional standalone
../salnet/res_mkquery.c	optional standalone
dev/ccd/ccd.c		optional ccd device-driver
dev/vn/vn.c		optional vn
dev/vx/if_vx.c		optional vx  device-driver
gnu/isdn/iitel.c            optional itel device-driver
gnu/isdn/iitty.c            optional ity device-driver
gnu/isdn/if_ii.c            optional ii device-driver
gnu/isdn/isdn.c             optional isdn device-driver
gnu/isdn/iispy.c            optional ispy device-driver
isofs/cd9660/cd9660_bmap.c	optional cd9660
isofs/cd9660/cd9660_lookup.c	optional cd9660
isofs/cd9660/cd9660_node.c	optional cd9660
isofs/cd9660/cd9660_rrip.c	optional cd9660
isofs/cd9660/cd9660_util.c	optional cd9660
isofs/cd9660/cd9660_vfsops.c	optional cd9660
isofs/cd9660/cd9660_vnops.c	optional cd9660
kdb/kdb_access.c	optional kadb
kdb/kdb_command.c	optional kadb
kdb/kdb_ctype.c		optional kadb
kdb/kdb_expr.c		optional kadb
kdb/kdb_format.c	optional kadb
kdb/kdb_input.c		optional kadb
kdb/kdb_message.c	optional kadb
kdb/kdb_output.c	optional kadb
kdb/kdb_pcs.c		optional kadb
kdb/kdb_print.c		optional kadb
kdb/kdb_runpcs.c	optional kadb
kdb/kdb_sym.c		optional kadb
kdb/kdb_trap.c		optional kadb
#kern/imgact_aout.c	optional standalone
kern/imgact_gzip.c	optional gzip
#kern/imgact_shell.c	optional standalone
kern/inflate.c		optional gzip
#kern/init_main.c	optional standalone
#kern/init_sysent.c	optional standalone
#kern/kern_acct.c	optional standalone
#kern/kern_clock.c	optional standalone
#kern/kern_descrip.c	optional standalone
kern/kern_devconf.c	optional standalone
#kern/kern_exec.c	optional standalone
#kern/kern_exit.c	optional standalone
#kern/kern_fork.c	optional standalone
#kern/kern_ktrace.c	optional standalone
#kern/kern_lkm.c		optional standalone
#kern/kern_lockf.c	optional standalone
kern/kern_malloc.c	optional standalone
#kern/kern_ntptime.c	optional standalone
kern/kern_physio.c	optional standalone
#kern/kern_proc.c	optional standalone
#kern/kern_prot.c	optional standalone
#kern/kern_resource.c	optional standalone
#kern/kern_sig.c		optional standalone
kern/kern_subr.c	optional standalone
#kern/kern_synch.c	optional standalone
#kern/kern_sysctl.c	optional standalone
#kern/kern_time.c	optional standalone
#kern/kern_xxx.c		optional standalone
kern/subr_diskslice.c	optional standalone
kern/subr_dkbad.c	optional standalone
#kern/subr_log.c		optional standalone
kern/subr_prf.c		optional standalone
#kern/subr_prof.c	optional standalone
kern/subr_rlist.c	optional standalone
kern/subr_xxx.c		optional standalone
#kern/sys_generic.c	optional standalone
#kern/sys_process.c	optional standalone
#kern/sys_socket.c	optional standalone
kern/sysv_ipc.c		optional sysvmsg
kern/sysv_ipc.c		optional sysvsem
kern/sysv_ipc.c		optional sysvshm
kern/sysv_msg.c		optional sysvmsg
kern/sysv_sem.c		optional sysvsem
kern/sysv_shm.c		optional sysvshm
kern/tty.c		optional standalone
kern/tty_compat.c	optional standalone
kern/tty_conf.c		optional standalone
kern/tty_pty.c		optional pty
kern/tty_snoop.c        optional snp
kern/tty_subr.c		optional standalone
kern/tty_tb.c		optional tb
kern/tty_tty.c		optional standalone
#kern/uipc_domain.c	optional standalone
kern/uipc_mbuf.c	optional standalone
#kern/uipc_proto.c	optional standalone
kern/uipc_socket.c	optional standalone no-obj before-depend
kern/uipc_socket2.c	optional standalone no-obj before-depend
#kern/uipc_syscalls.c	optional standalone
#kern/uipc_usrreq.c	optional standalone
#kern/vfs_bio.c		optional standalone
#kern/vfs_cache.c	optional standalone
#kern/vfs_cluster.c	optional standalone
#kern/vfs_conf.c		optional standalone
#kern/vfs_init.c		optional standalone
#kern/vfs_lookup.c	optional standalone
#kern/vfs_subr.c		optional standalone
#kern/vfs_syscalls.c	optional standalone
#kern/vfs_vnops.c	optional standalone
#miscfs/deadfs/dead_vnops.c	optional standalone
miscfs/fdesc/fdesc_vfsops.c	optional fdesc
miscfs/fdesc/fdesc_vnops.c	optional fdesc
#miscfs/fifofs/fifo_vnops.c	optional standalone
miscfs/kernfs/kernfs_vfsops.c	optional kernfs
miscfs/kernfs/kernfs_vnops.c	optional kernfs
miscfs/nullfs/null_subr.c	optional nullfs
miscfs/nullfs/null_vfsops.c	optional nullfs
miscfs/nullfs/null_vnops.c	optional nullfs
miscfs/portal/portal_vfsops.c	optional portal
miscfs/portal/portal_vnops.c	optional portal
miscfs/procfs/procfs_ctl.c	optional procfs
miscfs/procfs/procfs_fpregs.c	optional procfs
miscfs/procfs/procfs_mem.c	optional procfs
miscfs/procfs/procfs_note.c	optional procfs
miscfs/procfs/procfs_regs.c	optional procfs
miscfs/procfs/procfs_status.c	optional procfs
miscfs/procfs/procfs_subr.c	optional procfs
miscfs/procfs/procfs_vfsops.c	optional procfs
miscfs/procfs/procfs_vnops.c	optional procfs
#miscfs/specfs/spec_vnops.c	optional standalone
miscfs/umapfs/umap_subr.c	optional umapfs
miscfs/umapfs/umap_vfsops.c	optional umapfs
miscfs/umapfs/umap_vnops.c	optional umapfs
miscfs/union/union_subr.c	optional union
miscfs/union/union_vfsops.c	optional union
miscfs/union/union_vnops.c	optional union
msdosfs/msdosfs_conv.c		optional msdosfs
msdosfs/msdosfs_denode.c	optional msdosfs
msdosfs/msdosfs_fat.c		optional msdosfs
msdosfs/msdosfs_lookup.c	optional msdosfs
msdosfs/msdosfs_vfsops.c	optional msdosfs
msdosfs/msdosfs_vnops.c		optional msdosfs
net/bpf.c		optional bpfilter
net/bpf_filter.c	optional bpfilter
#net/if.c		optional standalone
net/if_disc.c		optional disc
net/if_ethersubr.c	optional ether
net/if_fddisubr.c	optional fddi
net/if_loop.c		optional loop
net/if_ppp.c		optional ppp
net/if_sl.c		optional sl
net/if_spppsubr.c	optional sppp
net/pppcompress.c	optional ppp
#net/radix.c		optional standalone
#net/raw_cb.c		optional standalone
#net/raw_usrreq.c	optional standalone
#net/route.c		optional standalone
#net/rtsock.c		optional standalone
net/slcompress.c	optional sl
net/if_tun.c		optional tun
netccitt/ccitt_proto.c	optional ccitt
netccitt/hd_debug.c	optional hdlc
netccitt/hd_input.c	optional hdlc
netccitt/hd_output.c	optional hdlc
netccitt/hd_subr.c	optional hdlc
netccitt/hd_timer.c	optional hdlc
netccitt/if_x25subr.c	optional ccitt
netccitt/llc_input.c	optional llc
netccitt/llc_output.c	optional llc
netccitt/llc_subr.c	optional llc
netccitt/llc_timer.c	optional llc
netccitt/pk_acct.c	optional ccitt
netccitt/pk_debug.c	optional ccitt
netccitt/pk_input.c	optional ccitt
netccitt/pk_llcsubr.c	optional hdlc
netccitt/pk_llcsubr.c	optional llc
netccitt/pk_output.c	optional ccitt
netccitt/pk_subr.c	optional ccitt
netccitt/pk_timer.c	optional ccitt
netccitt/pk_usrreq.c	optional ccitt
netimp/if_imp.c		optional imp
netimp/if_imphost.c	optional imp
netimp/raw_imp.c	optional imp
netinet/if_ether.c	optional ether
#netinet/igmp.c		optional inet
netinet/in.c		optional inet no-obj before-depend
netinet/in_pcb.c	optional inet no-obj before-depend
#netinet/in_proto.c	optional inet
#netinet/in_rmx.c	optional inet
#netinet/ip_icmp.c	optional inet
#netinet/ip_input.c	optional inet
#netinet/ip_mroute.c	optional inet
#netinet/ip_output.c	optional inet
#netinet/raw_ip.c	optional inet
#netinet/ip_fwdef.c	optional inet
netinet/ip_fw.c         optional ipfirewall
netinet/tcp_debug.c	optional tcpdebug no-obj before-depend
netinet/tcp_input.c	optional inet no-obj before-depend
netinet/tcp_output.c	optional inet no-obj before-depend
netinet/tcp_subr.c	optional inet no-obj before-depend
netinet/tcp_timer.c	optional inet no-obj before-depend
netinet/tcp_usrreq.c	optional inet no-obj before-depend
netinet/udp_usrreq.c	optional inet no-obj before-depend
netiso/clnp_debug.c	optional iso
netiso/clnp_er.c	optional iso
netiso/clnp_frag.c	optional iso
netiso/clnp_input.c	optional iso
netiso/clnp_options.c	optional iso
netiso/clnp_output.c	optional iso
netiso/clnp_raw.c	optional iso
netiso/clnp_subr.c	optional iso
netiso/clnp_timer.c	optional iso
netiso/cltp_usrreq.c	optional iso
netiso/esis.c		optional iso
netiso/idrp_usrreq.c	optional iso
netiso/if_eon.c		optional eon
netiso/iso.c		optional iso
netiso/iso_chksum.c	optional iso
netiso/iso_pcb.c	optional iso
netiso/iso_proto.c	optional iso
netiso/iso_snpac.c	optional iso
netiso/tp_astring.c	optional iso
netiso/tp_astring.c	optional tpip
netiso/tp_cons.c	optional iso
netiso/tp_driver.c	optional iso
netiso/tp_driver.c	optional tpip
netiso/tp_emit.c	optional iso
netiso/tp_emit.c	optional tpip
netiso/tp_inet.c	optional iso
netiso/tp_inet.c	optional tpip
netiso/tp_input.c	optional iso
netiso/tp_input.c	optional tpip
netiso/tp_iso.c		optional iso
netiso/tp_meas.c	optional iso
netiso/tp_meas.c	optional tpip
netiso/tp_output.c	optional iso
netiso/tp_output.c	optional tpip
netiso/tp_pcb.c		optional iso
netiso/tp_pcb.c		optional tpip
netiso/tp_subr.c	optional iso
netiso/tp_subr.c	optional tpip
netiso/tp_subr2.c	optional iso
netiso/tp_subr2.c	optional tpip
netiso/tp_timer.c	optional iso
netiso/tp_timer.c	optional tpip
netiso/tp_trace.c	optional iso
netiso/tp_trace.c	optional tpip
netiso/tp_usrreq.c	optional iso
netiso/tp_usrreq.c	optional tpip
netiso/tuba_subr.c	optional iso tuba
netiso/tuba_table.c	optional iso tuba
netiso/tuba_usrreq.c	optional iso tuba
netns/idp_usrreq.c	optional ns
netns/ns.c		optional ns
netns/ns_error.c	optional ns
netns/ns_input.c	optional ns
netns/ns_ip.c		optional ns
netns/ns_output.c	optional ns
netns/ns_pcb.c		optional ns
netns/ns_proto.c	optional ns
netns/spp_debug.c	optional ns
netns/spp_usrreq.c	optional ns
nfs/nfs_bio.c		optional nfs
nfs/nfs_bio.c		optional nfs_client
nfs/nfs_bio.c		optional nfs_server
nfs/nfs_node.c		optional nfs
nfs/nfs_node.c		optional nfs_client
nfs/nfs_node.c		optional nfs_server
nfs/nfs_nqlease.c	optional nfs
nfs/nfs_nqlease.c	optional nfs_client
nfs/nfs_nqlease.c	optional nfs_server
nfs/nfs_serv.c		optional nfs
nfs/nfs_serv.c		optional nfs_client
nfs/nfs_serv.c		optional nfs_server
nfs/nfs_socket.c	optional nfs
nfs/nfs_socket.c	optional nfs_client
nfs/nfs_socket.c	optional nfs_server
nfs/nfs_srvcache.c	optional nfs
nfs/nfs_srvcache.c	optional nfs_client
nfs/nfs_srvcache.c	optional nfs_server
nfs/nfs_subs.c		optional nfs
nfs/nfs_subs.c		optional nfs_client
nfs/nfs_subs.c		optional nfs_server
nfs/nfs_syscalls.c	optional nfs
nfs/nfs_syscalls.c	optional nfs_client
nfs/nfs_syscalls.c	optional nfs_server
nfs/nfs_vfsops.c	optional nfs
nfs/nfs_vfsops.c	optional nfs_client
nfs/nfs_vfsops.c	optional nfs_server
nfs/nfs_vnops.c		optional nfs
nfs/nfs_vnops.c		optional nfs_client
nfs/nfs_vnops.c		optional nfs_server
pccard/pccard.c		optional crd
pccard/pcic.c		optional pcic device-driver
pci/aic7870.c		optional ahc device-driver
pci/bt9xx.c		optional bt device-driver
pci/if_de.c		optional de device-driver
pci/if_fxp.c		optional fxp device-driver
pci/if_pdq.c		optional fea device-driver
pci/if_pdq.c		optional fpa device-driver
pci/if_vx_pci.c		optional vx device-driver
pci/meteor.c		optional meteor device-driver
pci/ncr.c		optional ncr device-driver
pci/pci.c		optional pci device-driver
pci/pcisupport.c	optional pci
pci/pdq.c		optional fea device-driver
pci/pdq.c		optional fpa device-driver
scsi/cd.c		optional cd
scsi/ch.c		optional ch
scsi/od.c		optional od
scsi/scsi_base.c	optional scbus
scsi/scsi_sense.c	optional scbus
scsi/scsi_ioctl.c	optional scbus
scsi/scsiconf.c		optional scbus
scsi/scsi_driver.c		optional scbus
scsi/uk.c		optional scbus
scsi/pt.c		optional pt
scsi/sd.c		optional sd
scsi/st.c		optional st
scsi/worm.c		optional worm
scsi/su.c		optional su
scsi/ssc.c		optional ssc
scsi/sctarg.c	optional sctarg
ufs/ffs/ffs_alloc.c	optional ffs
ufs/ffs/ffs_alloc.c	optional mfs
ufs/ffs/ffs_balloc.c	optional ffs
ufs/ffs/ffs_balloc.c	optional mfs
ufs/ffs/ffs_inode.c	optional ffs
ufs/ffs/ffs_inode.c	optional mfs
ufs/ffs/ffs_subr.c	optional ffs
ufs/ffs/ffs_subr.c	optional mfs
ufs/ffs/ffs_tables.c	optional ffs
ufs/ffs/ffs_tables.c	optional mfs
ufs/ffs/ffs_vfsops.c	optional ffs
ufs/ffs/ffs_vfsops.c	optional mfs
ufs/ffs/ffs_vnops.c	optional ffs
ufs/ffs/ffs_vnops.c	optional mfs
ufs/lfs/lfs_alloc.c	optional lfs
ufs/lfs/lfs_balloc.c	optional lfs
ufs/lfs/lfs_bio.c	optional lfs
ufs/lfs/lfs_cksum.c	optional lfs
ufs/lfs/lfs_debug.c	optional lfs
ufs/lfs/lfs_inode.c	optional lfs
ufs/lfs/lfs_segment.c	optional lfs
ufs/lfs/lfs_subr.c	optional lfs
ufs/lfs/lfs_syscalls.c	optional lfs
ufs/lfs/lfs_vfsops.c	optional lfs
ufs/lfs/lfs_vnops.c	optional lfs
ufs/mfs/mfs_vfsops.c	optional mfs
ufs/mfs/mfs_vnops.c	optional mfs
#ufs/ufs/ufs_bmap.c	optional standalone
ufs/ufs/ufs_disksubr.c	optional standalone
#ufs/ufs/ufs_ihash.c	optional standalone
#ufs/ufs/ufs_inode.c	optional standalone
#ufs/ufs/ufs_lookup.c	optional standalone
#ufs/ufs/ufs_quota.c	optional standalone
#ufs/ufs/ufs_vfsops.c	optional standalone
#ufs/ufs/ufs_vnops.c	optional standalone
#vm/device_pager.c	optional standalone
#vm/kern_lock.c		optional standalone
#vm/swap_pager.c		optional standalone
#vm/vm_fault.c		optional standalone
#vm/vm_glue.c		optional standalone
#vm/vm_init.c		optional standalone
#vm/vm_kern.c		optional standalone
#vm/vm_map.c		optional standalone
#vm/vm_meter.c		optional standalone
#vm/vm_mmap.c		optional standalone
#vm/vm_object.c		optional standalone
#vm/vm_page.c		optional standalone
#vm/vm_pageout.c		optional standalone
#vm/vm_pager.c		optional standalone
#vm/vm_swap.c		optional standalone
#vm/vm_unix.c		optional standalone
#vm/vnode_pager.c	optional standalone
#
pci/if_myri.c		optional myri device-driver		 	
myricom/myriApi.c	optional myri device-driver			\
	compile-with "/spin/bin/LINUXELFFreeBSD2/g++ -B/spin/bin/LINUXELFFreeBSD2/ -DSUPER_USER -g -O2 -Wall -static -Wstrict-prototypes -m486 -I$S -I$S/myricom/include -c $S/myricom/myriApi.c -o myriApi.o"
myricom/myriInterface.c	optional myri device-driver 		
myricom/myriList.c  optional myri device-driver			\
	compile-with "/spin/bin/LINUXELFFreeBSD2/g++ -B/spin/bin/LINUXELFFreeBSD2/ -DSUPER_USER -g -O2 -Wall -static -Wstrict-prototypes -m486 -I$S -I$S/myricom/include -c $S/myricom/myriList.c -o myriList.o"
