The actual order form follows the descriptions of media contents.

Most of this file is excerpted from the draft of the June 1995 GNU's Bulletin.
The Order Form itself is accurate, but the information in the other articles
is not completely updated.  You can ask gnu@prep.ai.mit.edu for the complete
June, 1995 Order From to get up-to-date information.

Please send suggestions for improvements to gnu@prep.ai.mit.edu or the postal
address at the end of the order form.  Thank You.

---------------------------------------------------------------------


FSF Order Form with Descriptions		preliminary, June 1995



Free Software Foundation, Inc.	      Telephone: +1-617-542-5942
59 Temple Place - Suite 330	      Fax: (including Japan) +1-617-542-2652
Boston, MA  02111-1307		      Free Dial Fax (in Japan):
USA						      0031-13-2473 (KDD)
Electronic mail: `gnu@prep.ai.mit.edu'		      0066-3382-0158 (IDC)


There are some sections (e.g. ``Forthcoming GNUs'' and ``How to Get GNU
Software'') which are not in this Order Form file.  If you wish to see them,
ask gnu@prep.ai.mit.edu for the complete June, 1995 GNU's Bulletin.


Table of Contents
-----------------

	Donations Translate Into Free Software
	Cygnus Matches Donations!
	Free Software Redistributors Donate
	Help from Free Software Companies
	(not included) Major Changes in GNU Software and Documentation (not
		included as it was not done when this file was assembled).
	GNU Documentation
	GNU Software		(not completely up to date)
	Program/Package Cross Reference	 (not completely up to date)
	Tapes
	   Languages Tape	(version numbers not completely up to date)
	   Lisps and Emacs Tape (version numbers not completely up to date)
	   Utilities Tape	(version numbers not completely up to date)
	   Scheme Tape
	   X11 Tapes
	   Berkeley 4.4BSD-Lite Tape
	   VMS Emacs and VMS Compiler Tapes
	CD-ROMs
	   Pricing of the GNU CD-ROMs
	   MS-DOS CD-ROM
	   Debian GNU/Linux CD-ROM
	   Compiler Tools Binaries CD-ROM
	   Source Code CD-ROMs
	      June 1995 Source Code CD-ROM (version numbers not completely up
					    to date)
	      May 1994 Source Code CD-ROM
	      November 1993 Source Code CD-ROM
	MS-DOS Diskettes
	   DJGPP Diskettes	(version numbers not completely up to date)
	   Emacs Diskettes	(version numbers not completely up to date)
	   Selected Utilities Diskettes	   (not completely up to date)
	   Windows Diskette
	Tape & CD-ROM Subscription Service
	The Deluxe Distribution
	FSF T-shirt
	Free Software Foundation Order Form



Donations Translate Into Free Software
**************************************

If you appreciate Emacs, GNU CC, Ghostscript, and other free software, you
may wish to help us make sure there is more in the future--remember,
*donations translate into more free software!*

Your donation to us is tax-deductible in the United States.  We gladly accept
*any* currency, although the U.S. dollar is the most convenient.
m{No Value For "ergegrafkludge"} If your employer has a matching gifts
program for charitable donations, please arrange to: add the FSF to the list
of organizations for your employer's matching gifts program; and have your
donation matched (note *Note Cygnus Matches Donations!::), if you do not
know, please ask your personnel department.   Circle amount you are donating,
cut out this form, and send it with your donation to:
	Free Software Foundation
	59 Temple Place -- Suite 330
	Boston, MA  02111-1307
	USA

	$500	 $250	  $100	   $50	   other $________

	Other currency:________


You can charge a donation to any of Carte Blanche, Diner's Club, JCB,
Mastercard, Visa, or American Express.	Charges may also be faxed to
+1-617-492-9057.  Individuals in Japan who are unable to place international
calls may use the "free dial" numbers: 0031-13-2473 (KDD) and
0066-3382-0158 (IDC).

	Card type: __________________  Expiration Date: _____________

	Account Number: _____________________________________________

	Cardholder's Signature: _____________________________________

	Name: _______________________________________________________

	Street Address: _____________________________________________

	City/State/Province: ________________________________________

	Zip Code/Postal Code/Country: _______________________________



Cygnus Matches Donations!
*************************

To encourage cash donations to the Free Software Foundation, Cygnus Support
will continue to contribute corporate funds to FSF to accompany gifts by its
employees, and by its customers and their employees.

Donations payable to the Free Software Foundation should be sent by eligible
persons to Cygnus Support, which will add its gifts and forward the total to
the FSF each quarter.  The FSF will provide the contributor with a receipt to
recognize the contribution (which is tax-deductible on U.S.  tax returns).
For more information, please contact Cygnus:
	Cygnus Support
	1937 Landings Drive
	Mountain View, CA   94043
	USA

	Telephone: 415-903-1400
		   +1-800-Cygnus1 (-294-6871)
	Fax:	   415-903-0122
	Electronic-Mail: `info@cygnus.com'
	FTP: `ftp.cygnus.com'
	WWW: `http://www.cygnus.com/'



Free Software Redistributors Donate
***********************************

by Richard Stallman

The Sun Users Group Deutschland and ASCII Corporation (Japan) have added
donations to the FSF to the price of their next CD-ROM of GNU software.
Potential purchasers will know precisely how much of the price is for the FSF
and how much is for the redistributor.

Austin Code Works, a redistributor of free software, is supporting free
software development by giving the FSF 20% of the selling price for the GNU
software packages they produce and sell.  The producers of the SNOW 2.1 CD
added the words "Includes $5 donation to the FSF" to the front of their CD.
Walnut Creek CDROM and Info Magic, two more free software redistributors, are
also giving us a percentage of their selling price.  CQ Publishing made a
large donation from the sales of their book about GAWK in Japanese.

In the long run, the success of free software depends on how much new free
software people develop.  Free software distribution offers an opportunity to
raise funds for such development in an ethical way.  These redistributors
have made use of the opportunity.  Many others let it go to waste.

You can help promote free software development by convincing for-a-fee
redistributors to contribute--either by doing development themselves, or by
donating to development organizations (the FSF and others).

The way to convince distributors to contribute is to demand and expect this
of them.  This means choosing among distributors partly by how much they give
to free software development.  Then you can show distributors they must
compete to be the one who gives the most.

To make this work, you must insist on numbers that you can compare, such as,
"We will give ten dollars to the Foobar project for each disk sold." A vague
commitment, such as "A portion of the profits is donated," doesn't give you a
basis for comparison.  Even a precise fraction "of the profits from this
disk" is not very meaningful, since creative accounting and unrelated
business decisions can greatly alter what fraction of the sales price counts
as profit.

Also, press developers for firm information about what kind of development
they do or support.  Some kinds make much more long-term difference than
others.	 For example, maintaining a separate version of a GNU program
contributes very little; maintaining a program on behalf of the GNU Project
contributes much.  Easy new ports contribute little, since someone else would
surely do them; difficult ports such as adding a new CPU to the GNU compiler
contribute more; major new features and programs contribute the most.

By establishing the idea that supporting further development is "the proper
thing to do" when distributing free software for a fee, we can assure a
steady flow of resources for making more free software.



Help from Free Software Companies
*********************************

When choosing a free software business, ask those you are considering how
much they do to assist free software development, e.g., by contributing money
to free software development or by writing free software improvements
themselves for general use.  By basing your decision partially on this
factor, you can help encourage those who profit from free software to
contribute to its growth.

These free software support companies regularly donate a part of their income
to the Free Software Foundation to support the development of new GNU
programs.  Listing them here is our way of thanking them.  Wingnut has made a
pledge to donate 10% of their income to the FSF, and has also purchased
several Deluxe Distribution packages in Japan.	(Wingnut is SRA's special GNU
support group).	 Also see *Note Cygnus Matches Donations!::.

	Wingnut Project
	Software Research Associates, Inc.
	1-1-1 Hirakawa-cho, Chiyoda-ku
	Tokyo 102, Japan

	Phone:	(+81-3)3234-2611
	Fax:	(+81-3)3942-5174
	E-mail: `info-wingnut@sra.co.jp'



GNU Documentation
*****************

GNU is dedicated to having quality, easy-to-use online and printed
documentation.	GNU manuals are intended to explain underlying concepts,
describe how to use all the features of each program, and give examples of
command use.  GNU manuals are distributed as Texinfo source files, which
yield both typeset hardcopy via the TeX document formatting system, and online
hypertext display via the menu-driven Info system.  Source for these manuals
comes with our software; here we list the manuals that we publish as printed
books as well; see the *note Free Software Foundation Order Form::..

Most GNU manuals are bound as soft cover books with "lay-flat" bindings.
This allows you to open them so they lie flat on a table without creasing the
binding.  These books have an inner cloth spine and an outer cardboard cover
that will not break or crease as an ordinary paperback will.  Currently, the
`GDB', `Emacs', `Emacs Lisp Reference', `GAWK', `Make', `Bison', and `Texinfo'
manuals have this binding.  The other GNU manuals also lie flat when opened,
using a GBC or Wire-O binding.	All of our manuals are 7in by 9.25in except
the 8.5in by 11in `Calc' manual.

The edition number of the manual and version number of the program listed
after each manual's name were current at the time this Bulletin was published.

`Debugging with GDB' (Edition 4.12 for Version 4.14) tells how to use the GNU
Debugger, run your program under debugger control, examine and alter data,
modify a program's flow of control, and use GDB through GNU Emacs.

The `Emacs Manual' (11th Edition for Version 19.29) describes editing with
GNU Emacs.  It explains advanced features, including outline mode and regular
expression search; how to use special modes for programming in languages like
C++ and TeX; how to use the `tags' utility; how to compile and correct code;
how to make your own keybindings; and other elementary customizations.

`Programming in Emacs Lisp, An Introduction' (Edition 1.03 for Version 19.29)
is an elementary introduction to programming in Emacs Lisp.  It is written
for people who are not necessarily interested in programming, but who do want
to customize or extend their computing environment.   It tells how to write
programs that find files; switchbuffers; use searches, conditionals, loops,
and recursion; how to write Emacs initialization files; and how to run the
Emacs Lisp debuggers.  If you read the text in GNU Emacs under Info mode, you
can run the sample programs directly.

The `GNU Emacs Lisp Reference Manual' (Edition 2.4 for Version 19.29) covers
this programming language in depth, including data types, control structures,
functions, macros, syntax tables, searching/matching, modes, windows,
keymaps, byte compilation, and the operating system interface.

The `GAWK Manual' (Edition 0.16 for Version 2.16) tells how to use the GNU
implementation of `awk'.  It is written for those who have never used `awk'
and describes the features of this powerful string and record manipulation
language.

The `Make Manual' (Edition 0.46 for Version 3.72) describes GNU `make', a
program used to rebuild parts of other programs.  The manual tells how to
write "makefiles", which specify how a program is to be compiled and how its
files depend on each other.  Included are an introductory chapter for novice
users and a section about automatically generated dependencies.

The `Flex Manual' (Edition 1.03 for Version 2.3.7) teaches you to write a
lexical scanner definition for the `flex' program to create a C++ or C-coded
scanner that recognizes the patterns defined.  You need no prior knowledge of
scanners.

The `Bison Manual' (December 1993 Edition for Version 1.23) teaches you how
to write context-free grammars for the Bison program that convert into
C-coded parsers.  You need no prior knowledge of parser generators.

`Using and Porting GNU CC' (September 1994 Edition for Version 2.6) tells how
to run, install, and port the GNU C Compiler to new systems.  It lists new
features and incompatibilities of GCC, but people not familiar with C will
still need a good reference on the C programming language.  It also covers
G++.

The `Texinfo Manual' (Edition 2.20 for Version 3) explains the markup
language used to generate both the online Info documentation and typeset
hardcopies.  It tells you how to make tables, lists, chapters, nodes,
indexes, cross references, how to use Texinfo mode in GNU Emacs, and how to
catch mistakes.	 This second edition describes over 50 new commands.

The `Termcap Manual' (2nd Edition for Version 1.2), often described as "twice
as much as you ever wanted to know about termcap," details the format of the
termcap database, the definitions of terminal capabilities, and the process
of interrogating a terminal description.  This manual is primarily for
programmers.

The `C Library Reference Manual' (Edition 0.06 for Version 1.09) describes
most of the facilities of the GNU C library, including both what Unix calls
"library functions" and "system calls."	 We are doing limited copier runs of
this manual until it becomes more stable.  Please send corrections and
improvements to `bug-glibc-manual@prep.ai.mit.edu'.

The `Emacs Calc Manual' (Edition 2.02 for Version 2.02) is both a tutorial
and a reference manual.	 It tells how to do ordinary arithmetic, how to use
Calc for algebra, calculus, and other forms of mathematics, and how to extend
Calc.



GNU Software - (NOT COMPLETELY UP TO DATE)
************

All our software is available via FTP; see *Note How to Get GNU Software::.
In addition, we offer software on various media and printed documentation:

   * *Note CD-ROMs::.

   * *Note Tapes::.

   * *Note MS-DOS Diskettes::.

   * *Note Documentation::, which includes manuals and reference cards.

We welcome all bug reports sent to the appropriate electronic mailing list
(*note Free Software Support::.).

In the articles describing the contents of each medium, the version number
listed after each program name was current when we published this Bulletin.
When you order a distribution tape, diskette or newer CD-ROM, some of the
programs may be newer, and therefore the version number higher.

Key to cross reference:


    BinCD
	  Binaries CD-ROM

    DjgppD
	  Djgpp Diskettes

    DosCD
	  MS-DOS CD-ROM

    EmcsD
	  Emacs Diskettes

    LspEmcT
	  Lisps/Emacs Tape

    LangT
	  Languages Tape

    LiteT
	  4.4BSD-Lite Tape

    SchmT
	  Scheme Tape

    SrcCD
	  Source CD-ROM

    UtilD
	  Selected Utilities Diskettes

    UtilT
	  Utilities Tape

    VMSCompT
	  VMS Compiler Tape

    VMSEmcsT
	  VMS Emacs Tape

    WdwsD
	  Windows Diskette

    X11OptT
	  X11 Optional Tape

    X11ReqT
	  X11 Required Tape



Configuring GNU Software:

We are using a uniform scheme for configuring GNU software packages in order
to compile them.  It uses the `Autoconf' program (see item below).  The goal
is to have all GNU software support the same alternatives for naming machine
and system types.   When the GNU system is complete it will be possible to
configure and build the entire system at once, eliminating the need to
separately configure each individual package.	The configuration scheme lets
you specify both the host and target system to build cross-compilation tools.



GNU software currently available:

(For new features and coming programs, see *Note Forthcoming GNUs::.)

   * `acm'	   (SrcCD, UtilT)

     `acm' is a LAN-oriented, multiplayer aerial combat simulation that runs
     under the X Window System.	 Players engage in air to air combat against
     one another using heat seeking missiles and cannons.  We are working on
     more accurate simulation of real airplane flight characteristics.

   * Autoconf	      (SrcCD, UtilT)

     Autoconf produces shell scripts which automatically configure source code
     packages.	These scripts adapt the packages to many kinds of Unix-like
     systems without manual user intervention.	Autoconf creates a script for
     a package from a template file which lists the operating system features
     which the package can use, in the form of `m4' macro calls.  Autoconf
     requires GNU `m4' to operate, but the resulting configure scripts it
     generates do not.

     Most GNU programs now use Autoconf-generated configure scripts.

   * BASH	  (SrcCD, UtilT)

     The GNU shell, BASH (Bourne Again SHell), is compatible with the Unix
     `sh' and offers many extensions found in `csh' and `ksh'.	BASH has job
     control, `csh'-style command history, and command-line editing (with
     Emacs and `vi' modes built-in, and the ability to rebind keys) via the
     readline library.	BASH conforms to the POSIX 1003.2 shell specification.

   * `bc'	  (DjgppD, DosCD, SrcCD, UtilT)

     `bc' is an interactive algebraic language with arbitrary precision
     numbers.  GNU `bc' follows the POSIX.2-1992 standard, with several
     extensions including multi-character variable names, an `else'
     statement, and full Boolean expressions.  The RPN calculator `dc' is now
     distributed as part of the same package, but GNU `bc' is not implemented
     as a `dc' preprocessor.

   * BFD	 (BinCD, DjggpD, DosCD, LangT, SrcCD)

     The Binary File Descriptor library allows a program which operates on
     object files (e.g., `ld' or GDB) to support many different formats in a
     clean way.	 BFD provides a portable interface, so that only BFD needs to
     know the details of a particular format.  One result is that all
     programs using BFD will support formats such as a.out, COFF, and ELF.
     BFD comes with source for Texinfo documentation (not yet published on
     paper).   Presently BFD is not distributed separately; it is included
     with packages that use it.

   * Binutils	      (BinCD, DjgppD, DosCD, LangT, SrcCD)

     Binutils includes the programs: `ar', `c++filt', `demangle', `gas',
     `gprof', `ld', `nlmconv', `nm', `objcopy', `objdump', `ranlib', `size',
     `strings', and `strip'.

     Binutils Version 2 uses the BFD library.  The GNU linker `ld' emits
     source-line numbered error messages for multiply-defined symbols and
     undefined references.  It interprets a superset of the AT&T Linker
     Command Language, which gives general control over where segments are
     placed in memory.	`nlmconv' converts object files into Novell NetWare
     Loadable Modules.	`objdump' can disassemble code for a29k, ALPHA,
     H8/300, H8/500, HP-PA, i386, i960, m68k, m88k, MIPS, SH, SPARC, & Z8000
     processors, and can display other data (e.g., symbols & relocations)
     from any file format understood by BFD.

   * Bison	   (BinCD, DjgppD, DosCD, LangT, SrcCD, VMSCompT)

     Bison is an upwardly compatible replacement for the parser generator
     `yacc'.  Texinfo source for the `Bison Manual' and reference card are
     included.	*Note Documentation::.

     We recently decided to change the policy for using the parsers that
     Bison generates.  It is now permitted to use Bison-generated parsers in
     non-free programs.	 *Note GNUs Flashes::.

   * GNU C Library	   (BinCD, LangT, SrcCD)

     The GNU C library supports ANSI C-1989, POSIX 1003.1-1990 and most of the
     functions in POSIX 1003.2-1992.  It is upwardly compatible with 4.4BSD
     and includes many System V functions, plus GNU extensions.

     The C Library will perform many functions of the Unix system calls in
     the Hurd.	Mike Haertel has written a fast `malloc' which wastes less
     memory than the old GNU version.  The GNU regular-expression functions
     (`regex' and `rx') now nearly conform to the POSIX 1003.2 standard.

     GNU `stdio' lets you define new kinds of streams, just by writing a few
     C functions.  The `fmemopen' function uses this to open a stream on a
     string, which can grow as necessary.  You can define your own `printf'
     formats to use a C function you have written.  For example, you can
     safely use format strings from user input to implement a `printf'-like
     function for another programming language.	 Extended `getopt' functions
     are already used to parse options, including long options, in many GNU
     utilities.

     The C Library runs on Sun-3 (SunOS 4.1), Sun-4 (SunOS 4.1 or Solaris 2),
     HP 9000/300 (4.3BSD), SONY News 800 (NewsOS 3 or 4), MIPS DECstation
     (Ultrix 4), DEC Alpha (OSF/1), i386/i486 (System V, SVR4, BSD, SCO 3.2 &
     SCO ODT 2.0), Sequent Symmetry i386 (Dynix 3) & SGI (Irix 4).  Texinfo
     source for the `GNU C Library Reference Manual' is included (*note
     Documentation::.); the manual is now being updated.

   * GNU C++ Library	     (BinCD, DjgppD, DosCD, LangT, SrcCD)

     The GNU C++ library (libg++) contains an extensive collection of C++
     `forest' classes, an IOStream library for input/output routines, and
     support tools for use with G++.  Supported classes include: Obstacks,
     multiple-precision Integers and Rationals, Complex numbers, arbitrary
     length Strings, BitSets and BitStrings.   Version 2.6.2 includes the
     initial release of the libstdc++ library.	This implements library
     facilities defined by the forthcoming ANSI/ISO C++ standard, including
     the Standard Template Library.

   * Calc	  (LspEmcT, SrcCD)

     Calc (written by Dave Gillespie in Emacs Lisp) is an extensible, advanced
     desk calculator & mathematical tool that runs as part of GNU Emacs.  You
     can use Calc just as a simple four-function calculator, but it has many
     more features including: choice of algebraic or RPN (stack-based) entry;
     logarithmic, trigonometric & financial functions; arbitrary precision;
     complex numbers; vectors; matrices; dates; times; infinities; sets;
     algebraic simplification; differentiation & integration.  It outputs to
     `gnuplot' & comes with source for a reference card & a Manual.  *Note
     Documentation::.

   * GNU Chess	       (SrcCD, UtilT, WdwsD)

     GNU Chess lets the computer play a full game of chess with you.  It runs
     on most platforms & has dumb terminal, "curses" & X terminal interfaces.
     The X terminal interface is based on the `xboard' program.
     m{No Value For "ergegrafkludge"} GNU Chess implements many specialized
     features including the null move heuristic, a hash table with aging, the
     history heuristic (another form of the earlier killer heuristic),
     caching of static evaluations, & a database which lets it play the first
     several moves of the game quickly.	  Recent improvements include better
     heuristics, faster evaluation, thinking on opponent's time, a perfect
     King and Pawn vs King endgame routine, Swedish & German language
     support, support for more book formats, a rudimentary Bobby Fischer
     clock, & bug fixes.   It is primarily supported by Stuart Cracraft, Chua
     Kong Sian, & Tim Mann on behalf of the FSF.

   * CLISP	   (LspEmcT, SrcCD)

     CLISP is a Common Lisp implementation by Bruno Haible and Michael Stoll.
     It mostly supports the Lisp described by `Common LISP: The Language (2nd
     edition)' and the ANSI Common Lisp standard.  CLISP includes an
     interpreter, a byte-compiler, a large subset of CLOS, a foreign language
     interface and, for some machines, a screen editor.	 The user interface
     language (English, German, French) is chooseable at run time.  Major
     packages that run in CLISP include CLX & Garnet.  CLISP needs only 2 MB
     of memory & runs on many microcomputers (including MS-DOS systems, OS/2,
     the Atari ST, Amiga 500-4000, Acorn RISC PC) & Unix-like systems
     (GNU/Linux, Sun4, SVR4, SGI, HP-UX, DEC Alpha, NeXTstep & others).

   * GNU Common Lisp	     (LspEmcT, SrcCD)

     GNU Common Lisp (GCL) has a compiler and interpreter for Common Lisp.  It
     used to be known as Kyoto Common Lisp.  It is very portable and extremely
     efficient on a wide class of applications.	 It compares favorably in
     performance with commercial Lisps on several large theorem-prover and
     symbolic algebra systems.	It supports the CLtL1 specification but is
     moving towards the proposed ANSI definition.   GCL compiles to C and
     then uses the native optimizing C compilers (e.g., GCC).  A function
     with a fixed number of args and one value turns into a C function of the
     same number of args, returning one value, so GCL is maximally efficient
     on such calls.  It has a conservative garbage collector which allows
     great freedom for the C compiler to put Lisp values in arbitrary
     registers.	 It has a source level Lisp debugger for interpreted code,
     with display of source code in an Emacs window.  Ita profiling tools
     (based on the C profiling tools) count function calls and the time spent
     in each function.	CLX works with GCL.

     There is now a builtin interface with the TK widget system.  It runs in
     a separate process so that users may monitor progress on lisp
     computations, or interact with running computations via a windowing
     interface.

     There is also an Xlib interface via C (xgcl-2).  PCL runs with GCL (see
     PCL item later in this article).  *Note Forthcoming GNUs::, for plans for
     about GCL, or for recent developments.   GCL version 2.0 is released
     under the GNU Library General Public License.

   * `cpio'	    (DjgppD, DosCD, SrcCD, UtilD, UtilT)

     `cpio' is an alternative archive program with all the features of SVR4
     `cpio', including support for the final POSIX 1003.1 `ustar' standard.
     `mt', a program to position magnetic tapes, is included with `cpio'.

   * CVS	 (SrcCD, UtilT)

     CVS, the Concurrent Version System, manages software revision and release
     control in a multi-developer, multi-directory, multi-group environment.
     It works best in conjunction with RCS versions 4 and above, but will
     parse older RCS formats with the loss of CVS's fancier features.  See
     Berliner, Brian, "CVS-II: Parallelizing Software Development,"
     `Proceedings of the Winter 1990 USENIX Association Conference'.  To find
     out how to get a copy of this report, contact `office@usenix.org'.

   * DejaGnu	     (LangT, SrcCD)

     DejaGnu is a framework for testing other programs that provides a single
     front end for all tests.  The framework's flexibility and consistency
     makes it easy to write tests for any program.  DejaGnu comes with
     `expect', which runs scripts to conduct dialogs with programs.

   * Diffutils	       (DjgppD, DosCD, SrcCD, UtilD, UtilT)

     GNU `diff' compares files showing line-by-line changes in several
     flexible formats.	It is much faster than traditional Unix versions.  The
     Diffutils package contains `diff', `diff3', `sdiff', and `cmp'.

     Recent Diffutils improvements include more consistent handling of
     character sets, and a new `diff' option to do all input/output in
     binary; this is useful on some non-Posix hosts.

     Plans for the Diffutils package include support for internationalization
     (e.g., error messages in Chinese), and for some non-Unix PC environments.

   * DJGPP	   (BinCD, DjgppD, DosCD)

     DJ Delorie has ported GCC/G++ 2.6.0 (see the GCC item in this section)
     to the i386 MS-DOS platform.  The DJGPP package also contains a 32-bit
     80386 DOS extender with symbolic debugger; development libraries; and
     ports of Bison, `flex', GAS, and the GNU Binutils.	 Full source code is
     provided.	It requires at least 5MB of hard disk space to install and
     512K of RAM to use.  It supports SVGA (up to 1024x768), XMS & VDISK
     memory allocation, `himem.sys', VCPI (e.g., QEMM, DESQview, & 386MAX),
     and DPMI (e.g., Windows 3.x, OS/2, QEMM, & QDPMI).	  Ask
     `djgpp-request@sun.soe.clarkson.edu' to join a DJGPP users mailing list.

   * `dld'	   (LangT, SrcCD)

     `dld' is a dynamic linker written by W. Wilson Ho.	 Linking your program
     with the `dld' library allows you to dynamically load object files into
     the running binary.  Currently supported are VAX (Ultrix), Sun 3 (SunOS
     3.4 & 4.0), SPARC (SunOS 4.0), Sequent Symmetry (Dynix), & Atari ST.

   * `doschk'	      (DjgppD, DosCD, SrcCD, UtilT)

     This program is intended as a utility to help software developers ensure
     that their source file names are distinguishable on System V platforms
     with 14-character filenames and on MS-DOS with 8+3 character filenames.

   * `ecc'	   (SrcCD, UtilT)

     `ecc' is a Reed-Solomon error correction checking program, which can
     correct three byte errors in a block of 255 bytes and detect more severe
     errors.  Contact `paulf@Stanford.EDU' for more information.

   * `ed'	  (SrcCD, UtilT)

     Ed is the standard text editor.

   * Elib	  (LspEmcT, SrcCD)

     Elib is a small library of Emacs Lisp functions, including routines for
     using AVL trees and doubly-linked lists.

   * GNU Emacs

     In 1975, Richard Stallman developed the first Emacs, an extensible,
     customizable real-time display editor and computing environment.  GNU
     Emacs is his second implementation.  It offers true Lisp--smoothly
     integrated into the editor--for writing extensions, and provides an
     interface to the X Window System.	It also runs on MS-DOS and Windows
     NT.  In addition to its powerful native command set, Emacs has
     extensions which emulate the editors vi and EDT (DEC's VMS editor).
     Emacs has many other features which make it a full computing support
     environment.  Our long term plan is now to move it in the direction of a
     WYSIWYG word processor and make it easy for beginners to use.  Source
     for the `GNU Emacs Manual', `Programming in Emacs Lisp, An
     Introduction', the `GNU Emacs Lisp Reference Manual', and a reference
     card come with the software.  *Note Documentation::.

   * GNU Emacs 18	  (EmcsD, LspEmcT, SrcCD, VMSEmcsT)

     GNU Emacs 18.59 is the last release of version 18 from the FSF.  We are
     no longer maintaining it.	It runs on many Unix systems.  In hardware
     order: Alliant FX/80 & FX/2800, Altos 3068, Amdahl (UTS), Apollo, AT&T
     (3Bs & 7300 PC), DG Aviion, Bull DPX/2 (2nn & 3nn) CCI 5/32 & 6/32,
     Celerity, Convex, Digital (DECstation 3100 & 5000 (PMAXes), Mips, VAX
     (BSD, SysV & VMS)), Motorola Delta 147 & 187, Dual, Elxsi 6400, Encore
     (DPC, APC & XPC), Gould, HP (9000 series 200, 300, 700 & 800, but not
     500), HLH Orion (original & 1/05), IBM (RS/6000 (AIX), RT/PC (4.2 & AIX)
     & PS/2 (AIX (386 only))), ISI (Optimum V, 80386), Intel 860 & 80386
     (BSD, Esix, SVR3, SVR4, SCO, ISC, IX, AIX & others), Iris (2500, 2500
     Turbo & 4D), Masscomp, MIPS, National Semiconductor 32000, NeXT (Mach),
     NCR Tower 32 (SVR2 & SVR3), Nixdorf Targon 31, Nu (TI & LMI), pfa50,
     Plexus, Prime EXL, Pyramid (original & MIPS), Sequent (Balance &
     Symmetry), SONY News (m68k & MIPS), Stride (system release 2), all Suns
     including 386i (all SunOS & some Solaris vers.), Tadpole, Tahoe, Tandem
     Integrity S2, Tektronix (16000 & 4300), Triton 88, Ustation E30 (SS5E),
     Whitechapel (MG1) & Wicat.

     In operating system order: AIX (RS/6000, RT/PC, 386-PS/2), BSD (vers.
     4.1, 4.2, 4.3), DomainOS, Esix (386), HP-UX (HP 9000 series 200, 300,
     700, 800 but not 500), ISC (386), IX (386), Mach, Microport, NewsOS
     (Sony m68k & MIPS) SCO (386), SVR0 (Vax, AT&T 3Bs), SVR2, SVR3, SVR4,
     Solaris 2.0, SunOS, UTS (Amdahl), Ultrix (vers. 3.0, 4,1), Uniplus 5.2
     (Dual machines), VMS (vers. 4.0, 4.2, 4.4, 5.5) & Xenix (386).

   * GNU Emacs 19	  (DosCD, EmacsD, LspEmcT, SrcCD)

     Emacs 19 works with character-only terminals as well as with the X
     Window System (with or without the X toolkit); New features in Emacs 19
     include: multiple X windows ("frames" to Emacs), with either a separate
     X window for the minibuffer or a minibuffer attached to each X window;
     property lists associated with regions of text in a buffer; multiple
     fonts and colors defined by those properties; simplified and improved
     processing of function keys, mouse clicks and mouse movement; X
     selection processing, including clipboard selections; hooks to be run if
     point or mouse moves outside a certain range; menu bars and popup menus
     defined by keymaps; scrollbars; before and after change hooks;
     source-level debugging of Emacs Lisp programs; European character sets
     support; floating point numbers; improved buffer allocation, including
     returning storage to the system when a buffer is killed; interfacing
     with the X resource manager; GNU configuration scheme support; good RCS
     support; & many updated libraries.

     Recent features include support for Motif widgets as well as the Athena
     widgets, displaying multiple views of an outline at the same time,
     version control support for CVS and for multiple branches, ability to
     open frames on more than one X display from a single Emacs job,
     operation on MS-DOS and MS Windows, commands to edit text properties,
     text properties for formatting text, the ability to save text properties
     in files, & GNU-standard long named command line options.

     Emacs 19.29 is believed to work on, in hardware order: Acorn Risc
     machine (RISCiX); Alliant FX/2800 (BSD); Alpha (OSF/1); Apollo
     (DomainOS); Bull DPX/2 2nn & 3nn (SysV.3) & sps7 (SysV.2); Clipper;
     Convex (BSD); Cubix QBx (SysV); Data General Aviion (DGUX); DEC MIPS
     (Ultrix 4.2 & OSF/1, not VMS); Elxsi 6400 (SysV); Gould Power Node & NP1
     (4.2 & 4.3BSD); Harris Night Hawk 1200 and 3000, 4000 and 5000 (cxux);
     Honeywell XPS100 (SysV); HP 9000 series 200, 300, 700, 800 (but not 500)
     (4.3BSD or HP-UX 7, 8, 9); Intel i386, i486 and Pentium (386BSD, AIX,
     BSDI/386, FreeBSD, Esix, GNU/Linux, ISC, MS-DOS (*note MS-DOS
     Diskettes::. & *Note MS-DOS CD-ROM::),  NetBSD, SCO3.2v4, SysV, Xenix,
     WindowsNT); IBM RS6000 (AIX 3.2); IBM RT/PC (AIX or BSD); Motorola Delta
     147 & 187 (SysV.3, SysV.4, & m88kbcs); National Semiconductor 32K
     (Genix); NeXT (BSD or Mach 2 w/ NeXTStep 3.0); Paragon (OSF/1); Prime
     EXL (SysV); Pyramid (BSD); Sequent Symmetry (BSD, ptx); Siemens RM400
     and RM600 (SysV); SGI Iris 4D (Irix 4.x & 5.x); Sony News/RISC (NewsOS);
     Stardent i860 (SysV); Sun 3 & 4, SPARC 1, 1+, 2, 10 & Classic (SunOS
     4.0, 4.1, Solaris 2.0-2.3); Tadpole 68k (SysV); Tektronix XD88 (SysV.3)
     & 4300 (BSD); & Titan P2 & P3 (SysV).

     In operating system order: AIX (i386, RS6000, RT/PC); 4.1, 4.2, 4.3BSD
     (i386, i860, Convex, Gould Power Node & NP1, HP9000 series 300, NeXT,
     Pyramid, Symmetry, Tektronix 4300, RT/PC); DG/UX (Aviion);
     DomainOS(Apollo); Esix (i386); FreeBSD (i386); Genix (ns32k); GNU/Linux
     (i386); HP-UX 7, 8, 9 (HP 9000 series 200, 300, 700, 800, but not 500);
     Irix 4 & 5 (Iris 4D); ISC (i386); Mach 2 & 3 (i386, NeXT); MS-DOS (*note
     MS-DOS Diskettes::. & *Note MS-DOS CD-ROM::); NetBSD (i386, HP9000
     series 300); OSF/1 (Alpha, Paragon); RISCiX (Acorn); SCO 3.2v4 (i386);
     SysV (Cubix QBx, Elxsi 6400, Honeywell XPS100, Intel i386, Prime EXL,
     Siemens RM400 and RM600, Stardent, Tadpole 68k, Titan P2 & P3); SysV.2
     (Bull sps7); SysV.3 (Bull DPX/2 2nn & 3nn, Motorola Delta 147 & 187,
     Tektronix XD88); SysV.4 (Motorola Delta 147 & 187, Stardent i860);
     Solaris 2 (SPARC 1, 1+, 2, 10, Classic); SunOS 4.0, 4.1 (Sun 3 & 4,
     SPARC 1, 1+, 2, 10 & Classic); Ultrix 4.2 (DEC MIPS); Windows NT; &
     Xenix (i386).

     Other configurations supported by Emacs 18 should work with few changes
     in Emacs 19; as users tell us more about their experiences with different
     systems, we will augment the list.	 Also see *Note Forthcoming GNUs::.

   * `es'	  (SrcCD, UtilT)

     `es' is an extensible shell based on `rc' with first class functions,
     lexical scope, exceptions, and rich return values (i.e., functions can
     return values other than just numbers).  `es''s extensibility comes from
     the ability to modify and extend the shell's builtin services, such as
     path searching and redirection.  Like `rc', it is great for both
     interactive use and for scripting, particularly since its quoting rules
     are much less baroque than the C or Bourne shells.

   * `f2c'	   (LangT, SrcCD)

     `f2c' converts Fortran-77 source files into C or C++, which can be
     compiled with GCC.	 You can get bug fixes by FTP from site
     `netlib.att.com' or by email from `netlib@research.att.com'.  The fixes
     are summarized in the file `/netlib/f2c/changes.Z'.  *Note Forthcoming
     GNUs::, for information about GNU Fortran.

   * Fileutils	       (DjgppD, DosCD, SrcCD, UtilD, UtilT)

     The fileutils work on files: `chgrp', `chmod', `chown', `cp', `dd', `df',
     `dir', `du', `install', `ln', `ls', `mkdir', `mkfifo', `mknod', `mv',
     `mvdir', `rm', `rmdir', `sync', `touch', & `vdir'.	 Only some of these
     are on the *Note Selected Utilities Diskettes::.

   * Findutils	       (DjgppD, DosCD, SrcCD, UtilD, UtilT)

     `find' is frequently used both interactively and in shell scripts to
     find files which match certain criteria and perform arbitrary operations
     on them.  Also included are `xargs', which applies a command to a list
     of files, and `locate', which scans a database for file names that match
     a pattern.

   * Finger	    (SrcCD, UtilT)

     GNU Finger has more features than other finger programs.  For sites with
     many hosts, a single host may be designated as the finger "server" host,
     and other hosts at that site configured as finger "clients".  The server
     host collects information about who is logged in to the clients.  To
     finger a user at a GNU Finger site, a query to any its client hosts gets
     useful information.  GNU Finger supports many customization features,
     including user output filters, and site programmable output for special
     target names.

   * `flex'	    (DjgppD, DosCD, LangT, SrcCD, UtilD)

     `flex' is a replacement for the `lex' scanner generator.  `flex' was
     written by Vern Paxson of the Lawrence Berkeley Laboratory and generates
     far more efficient scanners than `lex' does.  Source for the `Flex
     Manual' and reference card are included.  *Note Documentation::.

   * FlexFAX	     (UtilT)

     FlexFAX is now called HylaFAX.  For more information, *Note GNU
     Software::.

   * Fontutils	       (SrcCD, UtilT)

     The fontutils create fonts for use with Ghostscript or TeX, starting
     with a scanned type image and converting the bitmaps to outlines.	They
     also contain general conversion programs and other utilities.

     Fontutils programs include: `bpltobzr', `bzrto', `charspace',
     `fontconvert', `gsrenderfont', `imageto', `imgrotate', `limn', and
     `xbfe'.

   * GAWK	  (DjgppD, DosCD, LangT, SrcCD)

     GAWK is upwardly compatible with the latest POSIX specification of
     `awk'.  It also provides several useful extensions not found in other
     `awk' implementations.  Texinfo source for the `GAWK Manual' comes with
     the software.  *Note Documentation::.

   * GCC	 (BinCD, DjgppD, DosCD, LangT, SrcCD, VMSCompT)

     Version 2 of the GNU C Compiler supports multiple languages; the source
     file name suffix or a compiler option selects the language.  The GNU C
     Compiler distribution includes support for C, C++ and Objective-C.
     Support for Objective-C was donated by NeXT.  The runtime support needed
     to run Objective-C programs is now distributed with GCC (this does not
     include any Objective-C classes aside from `object').  As much as
     possible, G++ is kept compatible with the evolving draft ANSI standard,
     but not with `cfront' (AT&T's compiler), which has been diverging from
     ANSI.

     The GNU C Compiler is a fairly portable optimizing compiler which
     performs automatic register allocation, common sub-expression
     elimination, invariant code motion from loops, induction variable
     optimizations, constant propagation and copy propagation, delayed
     popping of function call arguments, tail recursion elimination,
     integration of inline functions and frame pointer elimination,
     instruction scheduling, loop unrolling, filling of delay slots, leaf
     function optimization, optimized multiplication by constants, a certain
     amount of common subexpression elimination (CSE) between basic blocks
     (though not all of the supported machine descriptions provide for
     scheduling or delay slots), a feature for assigning attributes to
     instructions, and many local optimizations that are automatically
     deduced from the machine description.  Position-independent code is
     supported on the 68k, i386, i486, Pentium, Hitachi Slt, Hitachi H8/300,
     Clipper, 88k, SPARC & SPARClite.

     GCC can open-code most arithmetic on 64-bit values (type `long long
     int').  It supports extended floating point (type `long double') on the
     68k; other machines will follow.

     GCC supports full ANSI C, traditional C & GNU C extensions (including:
     nested functions support, nonlocal gotos & taking the address of a
     label).

     GCC can generate a.out, COFF, ELF & OSF-Rose files when used with a
     suitable assembler.  It can produce debugging information in these
     formats: BSD stabs, COFF, ECOFF, ECOFF with stabs & DWARF.

     GCC generates code for many CPUs, including: a29k, Alpha, ARM, AT&T
     DSP1610, Convex cN, Clipper, Elxsi, Fujitsu Gmicro, H8/300, HP-PA (1.0
     and 1.1) i370, i386, i486, Pentium, i860, i960, m68k, m68020, m68030,
     m68040, m88k, MIL-STD-1750a, MIPS, ns32k, PDP-11, Pyramid, ROMP, RS6000,
     SH, SPARC, SPARClite, VAX, & we32k.

     Operating systems supported include: AIX, ACIS, AOS, BSD, Clix, Ctix,
     DG/UX, Dynix, Genix, GNU, HP-UX, ISC, Irix, GNU/Linux, Luna, LynxOS,
     Mach, Minix, NetBSD, NewsOS, OSF, OSF-Rose, RISCOS, SCO, Solaris 2,
     SunOS 4, SysV, Ultrix, Unos, VMS & Windows/NT.

     Using the configuration scheme for GCC, building a cross-compiler is as
     easy as building a native compiler.

     We no longer maintain version 1 of GCC, G++, or libg++.

     Texinfo source for the `Using and Porting GNU CC' manual, is included
     with GCC.	 *Note Forthcoming GNUs::, for plans for later releases of
     GCC.

   * GDB	 (BinCD, DjgppD, DosCD, LangT, SrcCD)

     GDB, the GNU DeBugger, is a source-level debugger which supports C, C++,
     and Fortran.

     GDB can debug both C and C++ programs, and will work with executables
     produced by many different compilers; however, C++ debugging will have
     some limitations if you do not use GCC.

     GDB has a command line user interface; GNU Emacs comes with a GDB mode,
     and `xxgdb' provides an X interface (but it is not distributed or
     maintained by the FSF; FTP it from `ftp.x.org' in the
     `/contrib/utilities' directory).

     Executable files and symbol tables are read via the BFD library, which
     allows a single copy of GDB to debug programs with multiple object file
     formats (e.g., a.out, COFF, ELF).	Other features include a rich command
     language, remote debugging over serial lines or TCP/IP, and watchpoints
     (breakpoints triggered when the value of an expression changes).

     GDB defines a standard interface for simulators, and the included
     simulator library includes simulators for the Zilog Z8001/2, Hitachi
     H8/300, H8/500 & Super-H.

     GDB can perform cross-debugging.  To say that GDB "targets" a platform
     means that it can perform native or cross-debugging for it.  To say that
     GDB can "host" a given platform means that it can be built on it, but
     cannot necessarily debug native programs.	GDB can:

	* "target" & "host": Amiga 3000 (Amix), DEC Alpha (OSF/1), DECstation
	  3100 & 5000 (Ultrix), HP 9000/300 (BSD, HP-UX), HP 9000/700 (HP-UX),
	  i386 (BSD, FreeBSD, GNU/Linux, LynxOS, NetBSD, SCO), IBM RS/6000
	  (AIX, LynxOS), Motorola Delta m88k (System V, CX/UX), PC532
	  (NetBSD), Motorola m68k MVME-167 (LynxOS), NCR 3000 (SVR4), SGI
	  (Irix V3, V4, V5), SONY News (NewsOS 3.x), SPARC (SunOS 4.1,
	  Solaris, NetBSD, LynxOS) Sun-3 (SunOS 4.1), & Ultracomputer (a29k
	  running Sym1).

	* "target", but not "host": AMD 29000 (COFF & a.out), Hitachi H8/300,
	  Hitachi SH, i386 (a.out, COFF, OS/9000) i960 (Nindy, VxWorks),
	  m68k/m68332 (a.out, COFF, VxWorks), MIPS (IDT ecoff, ELF), Fujitsu
	  SPARClite (a.out, COFF), & Z8000.

	* "host", but not "target": IBM RT/PC (AIX), and HP/Apollo 68k (BSD).

     GDB can use the symbol tables emitted by the vendor-supplied compilers of
     most MIPS-based machines, including DEC.  (These tables are in a format
     which almost nobody else uses.)  Source for the manual
     `Debugging with GDB' and a reference card are included.  *Note
     Documentation::.

   * `gdbm'	    (LangT, SrcCD, UtilD)

     `gdbm' is the GNU replacement for the traditional `dbm' and `ndbm'
     libraries.	 It implements a database using quick lookup by hashing.
     `gdbm' does not ordinarily make sparse files (unlike its Unix and BSD
     counterparts).

   * Ghostscript	 (DjgppD, DosCD, SrcCD, UtilT)

     GNU Ghostscript is the GNU release of Ghostscript, which is an
     interpreter for the Postscript graphics language (*note Forthcoming
     GNUs::., for news on future plans).

     The current version of GNU Ghostscript is 2.6.2.  Features include the
     ability to use the fonts provided by the platform on which Ghostscript
     runs (X Window System and Microsoft Windows), resulting in much
     better-looking screen displays; improved text file printing (like
     `enscript'); a utility to extract the text from a Postscript language
     document; a much more reliable (and faster) Microsoft Windows
     implementation; support for Microsoft C/C++ 7.0; drivers for many new
     printers, including the SPARCprinter, and for TIFF/F (fax) file format;
     many more Postscript Level 2 facilities, including most of the color
     space facilities (but not patterns), and the ability to switch between
     Level 1 and Level 2 dynamically.  Version 2.6.2 adds a LaserJet 4 driver
     and several important bug fixes to version 2.6.1.

     Ghostscript executes commands in the Postscript language by writing
     directly to a printer, drawing on an X window, or writing to a file for
     later printing (or to a bitmap file that you can manipulate with other
     graphics programs).

     Ghostscript includes a C-callable graphics library (for client programs
     that do not want to deal with the Postscript language).  It also supports
     IBM PCs and compatibles with EGA, VGA, or SuperVGA graphics (but please
     do *not* ask the FSF staff any questions about this; we do not use PCs).

   * Ghostview	       (SrcCD, UtilT)

     Tim Theisen, `ghostview@cs.wisc.edu', has created Ghostview, a previewer
     for multi-page files with an X11 user interface.  Ghostview and
     Ghostscript function as two cooperating programs; Ghostview creates a
     viewing window and Ghostscript draws in it.

   * `gmp'	   (LangT, SrcCD)

     GNU mp is a library for arbitrary precision arithmetic on signed integers
     and rational numbers.  It has a rich set of functions with a regular
     interface.

   * GNATS	   (SrcCD, UtilT)

     GNATS (GNats: A Tracking System, not to be confused with GNAT, The GNU
     Ada Translator) is a bug-tracking system.	It is based upon the paradigm
     of a central site or organization which receives problem reports and
     negotiates their resolution by electronic mail.  Although it has been
     used primarily as a software bug-tracking system so far, it is
     sufficiently generalized so that it could be used for handling system
     administration issues, project management or any number of other
     applications.

   * `gnuplot'	       (SrcCD, UtilT, WdwsD)

     `gnuplot' is an interactive program for plotting mathematical
     expressions and data.  It handles both curves (2 dimensions) and surfaces
     (3 dimensions).  Curiously, the program was neither written nor named for
     the GNU Project; the name is a coincidence.  Various GNU programs use
     `gnuplot' to produce graphical output.

   * GnuGo	   (SrcCD, UtilT)

     GnuGo plays the game of Go (Wei-Chi); it is not yet very sophisticated.

   * `gperf'	     (LangT, SrcCD)

     `gperf' generates perfect hash tables.  There are two implementations of
     `gperf', written in C and C++.  Both produce hash functions in either C
     or C++.

   * GNU Graphics	  (SrcCD, UtilT)

     GNU Graphics is a system which produces x-y plots from ASCII or binary
     data.  It supports output in Postscript, Tektronix 4010 compatible and
     Unix device-independent "plot" formats as well as a previewer for the X
     Window System.  Features include a `spline' interpolation program;
     examples of shell scripts using `graph' and `plot'; and a statistics
     toolkit; and output in TekniCAD TDA and ln03 file formats.	 Email bugs or
     questions to Rich Murphey, `Rich@lamprey.utmb.edu'.

   * grep	  (DjgppD, DosCD, SrcCD, UtilD, UtilT)

     This package has GNU `grep', `egrep', and `fgrep' which find lines that
     match inputed patterns.  They are much faster than the traditional Unix
     versions.

   * Groff	   (DjgppD, DosCD, SrcCD, UtilT)

     Groff is a document formatting system based on an implementation of
     device-independent troff, which also includes implementations of `eqn',
     `nroff', `pic', `refer', `tbl', `troff', and the `man', `ms', and `mm'
     macros, as well as drivers for Postscript, TeX `dvi' format, and
     typewriter-like devices.

     Groff's `mm' macro package is almost compatible with the DWB `mm' macros
     and has several extensions.  Also included is a modified version of the
     Berkeley `me' macros and an enhanced version of the X11 `xditview'
     previewer.	 Written in C++, these programs can be compiled with GNU C++
     Version 2.5 or later.  A driver for the LaserJet 4 series of printers is
     currently in test.

     Groff users are encouraged to contribute enhancements.  Most needed are
     complete Texinfo documentation, a `grap' emulation (a `pic' preprocessor
     for typesetting graphs), a page-makeup postprocessor similar to `pm'
     (see `Computing Systems', Vol. 2, No. 2; ask `office@usenix.org' how to
     get a copy) and an ASCII output class for `pic' so that `pic' can be
     integrated with Texinfo.  Questions and bug reports from users who have
     read the documentation provided with groff can be sent to
     `bug-groff@prep.ai.mit.edu'.

   * `gzip'	    (DjgppD, DosCD, LangT, LspEmcT, SrcCD, UtilT)

     Some of the contents of our tape and FTP distributions are compressed.
     We have software on our tapes and FTP sites to uncompress these files.
     Due to patent troubles with `compress', we use another compression
     program, `gzip'.  (Such prohibitions on software development are fought
     by the League for Programming Freedom, *note What Is the LPF::., for
     details.) `gzip' can expand LZW-compressed files but uses another,
     unpatented algorithm for compression which generally produces better
     results.  It also expands files compressed with System V's `pack'
     program.

   * `hello'	     (DjgppD, DosCD, SrcCD, UtilT)

     The GNU `hello' program produces a familiar, friendly greeting.  It
     allows non-programmers to use a classic computer science tool which would
     otherwise be unavailable to them.	Because it is protected by the GNU
     General Public License, users are free to share and change it.

     Like any truly useful program, `hello' contains a built-in mail reader.

   * `hp2xx'	     (SrcCD, UtilT)

     GNU `hp2xx' reads HP-GL files, decomposes all drawing commands into
     elementary vectors, and converts them into a variety of vector and raster
     output formats.  It is also an HP-GL previewer.  Currently supported
     vector formats include encapsulated Postscript, Uniplex RGIP, Metafont
     and various special TeX-related formats, and simplified HP-GL (line
     drawing only) for imports.	 Raster formats supported include IMG, PBM,
     PCX, & HP-PCL (including Deskjet & DJ5xxC support).  Previewers work
     under X11 (Unix), OS/2 (PM & full screen), MS-DOS (SVGA, VGA, & HGC).

   * HylaFAX	     (UtilT)

     HylaFAX is a facsimile system for Unix systems.  It supports sending,
     receiving, and polled retrieval of facsimile, as well as transparent
     shared data use of the modem.   Information is also available on the
     World Wide Web at URL: `http://www.vix.com/hylafax/'.

   * `indent'	      (DjgppD, DosCD, SrcCD, UtilD, UtilT)

     GNU `indent' is a revision of the BSD version.  By default, it formats C
     source according to the GNU coding standards.  The BSD default, K&R and
     other formats are available as options.  It is also possible to define
     your own format.  GNU `indent' is more robust and provides more
     functionality than other versions, e.g., it handles C++ comments.

   * Ispell	    (DjgppD, DosCD, SrcCD, UtilT)

     Ispell is an interactive spell checker that suggests "near misses" as
     replacements for unrecognized words.  System & user-maintained
     dictionaries for multiple languages can be used.  Standalone & GNU Emacs
     interfaces are available.	 Previously, the GNU Project had its own
     version of ispell ("Ispell 4.0"), but has dropped it for a parallel
     branch that has had more development ("Ispell 3.1").  (Version 3 was an
     earlier release from the original Ispell author, but others have since
     made it more sophisticated.)

   * JACAL	   *Not available from the FSF*

     JACAL is a symbolic mathematics system for the manipulation and
     simplification of equations and single and multiple-valued algebraic
     expressions constructed of numbers, variables, radicals, differential
     operators, and algebraic and holonomic functions.	Vectors, matrices,
     and tensors of these objects are also supported.

     JACAL was written in Scheme by Aubrey Jaffer.  It comes with SCM, an IEEE
     P1178 and R4RS compliant version of Scheme written in C.  SCM runs on
     Amiga, Atari-ST, MS-DOS, OS/2, NOS/VE, Unicos, VMS, Unix, and similar
     systems.  SLIB is a portable Scheme library used by JACAL.
     m{No Value For "ergegrafkludge"} The FSF is not distributing JACAL on
     any media.	 To receive an IBM PC floppy disk with the source and
     executable files, send $99.00 to:
	     Aubrey Jaffer
	     84 Pleasant Street
	     Wakefield, MA   01880-1846
	     USA

   * `less'	    (SrcCD, UtilD, UtilT)

     `less' is a display paginator similar to `more' and `pg' but with
     various features (such as the ability to scroll backwards) that most
     pagers lack.

   * `m4'	  (DjgppD, DosCD, SrcCD, UtilD, UtilT)

     GNU `m4' is an implementation of the traditional Unix macro processor.
     It is mostly SVR4 compatible, although it has some extensions (for
     example, handling more than 9 positional parameters to macros).  `m4'
     also has built-in functions for including files, running shell commands,
     doing arithmetic, etc.

   * `make'	    (BinCD, DjgppD, DosCD, LangT, LspEmcT, SrcCD, UtilD,
     UtilT)

     GNU `make' supports POSIX 1003.2 and has all but a few obscure features
     of the BSD and System V versions of `make', as well as many of our own
     extensions.  GNU extensions include long options, parallel compilation,
     flexible implicit pattern rules, conditional execution and powerful text
     manipulation functions.  Texinfo source for the `Make Manual' comes with
     the program.  *Note Documentation::.

     GNU `make' is on several of our tapes because some system vendors supply
     no `make' utility at all, and some native `make' programs lack the
     `VPATH' feature essential for using the GNU configure system to its full
     extent.  The GNU `make' sources have a shell script to build `make'
     itself on such systems.

     MS-DOS binaries for `make' are available with the DJGPP distribution.

   * MandelSpawn	 (SrcCD, UtilT)

     A parallel Mandelbrot generation program for the X Window System.

   * mtools	    (SrcCD, UtilT)

     mtools is a set of public domain programs to allow Unix systems to read,
     write and manipulate files on an MS-DOS file system (usually a diskette).

   * MULE	  (EmcsD, DosCD, SrcCD)

     MULE is a MULtilingual Enhancement to GNU Emacs.  It can handle many
     character sets at once including Japanese, Chinese, Korean, Vietnamese,
     Thai, Greek, the ISO Latin-1 through Latin-8 character sets, Ukrainian,
     Arabic, Hebrew, Russian, and other Cyrillic alphabets.  A text buffer in
     MULE can contain a mixture of characters from these languages.  To input
     any of these characters, you can use various input methods provided by
     MULE itself.  In addition, if you use MULE under some terminal emulators
     (kterm, cxterm, or exterm), you can use its input methods.	 MULE is
     being merged into GNU Emacs.  *Note GNU and Other Free Software in
     Japan::, for more information about MULE.

   * NetHack	     (SrcCD, UtilT)

     NetHack is a display-oriented adventure game similar to Rogue.  Both
     ASCII and X displays are supported.

   * NIH Class Library	       (LangT, SrcCD)

     The NIH Class Library (formerly known as "OOPS", Object-Oriented Program
     Support) is a portable collection of C++ classes, similar to those in
     Smalltalk-80, which has been developed by Keith Gorlen of the National
     Institutes of Health (NIH), using the C++ programming language.

   * `nvi'	   (SrcCD, UtilT)

     `nvi' is a free implementation of the `vi'/`ex' Unix editor.  It has
     most of the functionality of the original `vi'/`ex', except "open" mode
     & the `lisp' option, which will be added.	Enhancements over `vi'/`ex'
     include split screens with multiple buffers, handling 8-bit data,
     infinite file & line lengths, tag stacks, infinite undo & extended
     regular expressions.  It runs under GNU/Linux, BSD, NetBSD, FreeBSD,
     BSDI, AIX, HP-UX, DGUX, IRIX, PSF, PTX, Solaris, SunOS, Ultrix, Unixware
     & should port easily to many other systems.

   * GNU Objective-C Library	     (LangT, SrcCD)

     The GNU Objective-C Class Library (`libobjects') is a library of
     general-purpose, non-graphical Objective-C objects written by Andrew
     McCallum and other volunteers.  It includes collection classes for
     maintaining groups of objects and C types, streams for I/O to various
     destinations, coders for formatting objects and C types to streams, ports
     for network packet transmission, distributed objects (remote object
     messaging), string classes, pseudo-random number generators, and time
     handling facilities.  The package will also include the foundation
     classes for the GNUStep project; over 50 of these classes have already
     been implemented.	The library is known to work on i386, i486, Pentium,
     m68k, SPARC, MIPS, & RS6000.  Send queries and bug reports to
     `mccallum@gnu.ai.mit.edu'.

   * `OBST'	    (LangT, SrcCD)

     `OBST' is a persistent object management system with bindings to C++.
     `OBST' supports incremental loading of methods.  Its graphical tools
     require the X Window System.  It features a hands-on tutorial including
     sample programs.  It compiles with g++ and should install easily on most
     Unix platforms.

   * Octave	    (LangT, SrcCD)

     Octave is a high-level language similar to MATLAB that is primarily
     intended for numerical computations.  It provides a convenient command
     line interface for solving linear and nonlinear problems numerically.
     m{No Value For "ergegrafkludge"} Octave does arithmetic for real and
     complex scalars and matrices, solves sets of nonlinear algebraic
     equations, integrates systems of ordinary differential and
     differential-algebraic equations, and integrates functions over finite
     and infinite intervals.  Two- and three-dimensional plotting is
     available using `gnuplot'.	  Send queries and bug reports to:
     `bug-octave@che.utexas.edu'.   Source is included for a 220+ page
     Texinfo manual, which is not yet published by the FSF.

   * Oleo	  (SrcCD, UtilT)

     Oleo is a spreadsheet program (better for you than the more expensive
     spreadsheets).  It supports the X Window System and character-based
     terminals, and can output Embedded Postscript renditions of spreadsheets.
     Keybindings should be familiar to Emacs users and are configurable.
     Under X and in Postscript output, Oleo supports multiple, variable width
     fonts.   *Note Forthcoming GNUs::, for the plans for later releases of
     Oleo.

   * `p2c'	   (LangT, SrcCD)

     `p2c' is a Pascal-to-C translator written by Dave Gillespie.  It
     recognizes many Pascal dialects including Turbo, HP, VAX, and ISO, and
     produces readable, maintainable, portable C.

   * `patch'	     (DjgppD, DosCD, SrcCD, UtilT)

     `patch' is our version of Larry Wall's program to take `diff''s output
     and apply those differences to an original file to generate the modified
     version.

   * PCL	 (LspEmcT, SrcCD)

     PCL is a free implementation of a large subset of CLOS, the Common Lisp
     Object System.  It runs under both GCL and CLISP, mentioned above.

   * `perl'	    (LangT, SrcCD)

     Larry Wall's `perl' combines the features and capabilities of `sed',
     `awk', `sh' and C, as well as interfaces to the Unix system calls and
     many C library routines.

   * `ptx'	   (SrcCD, UtilD, UtilT)

     GNU `ptx' is our version of the traditional permuted index generator.
     It handles multiple input files at once, produces TeX compatible output,
     & outputs readable "KWIC" (KeyWords In Context) indexes.	It does not
     yet handle input files that do not fit in memory all at once.

   * `rc'	  (SrcCD, UtilT)

     `rc' is a shell that features a C-like syntax (much more so than `csh')
     and far cleaner quoting rules than the C or Bourne shells.	 It's
     intended to be used interactively, but is also great for writing
     scripts.  It inspired the shell `es'.

   * RCS	 (SrcCD, UtilD, UtilT)

     RCS, the Revision Control System, is used for version control &
     management of software projects.  When used with GNU `diff', RCS can
     handle binary files (executables, object files, 8-bit data, etc).	Also
     see the item about CVS in this section.

   * `recode'	      (SrcCD, UtilT)

     GNU `recode' converts files between character sets and usages.  When
     exact transliterations are not possible, it may get rid of the offending
     characters or fall back on approximations.	 This program recognizes or
     produces nearly 150 different character sets and is able to
     transliterate files between almost any pair.  Most RFC 1345 character
     sets are supported.

   * regex	   (LangT, SrcCD)

     The GNU regular expression library supports POSIX.2, except for
     internationalization features.  It is included in many GNU programs which
     do regular expression matching and available separately.  An alternative
     regular expression package, `rx', comes with `sed'; it has the potential
     to be faster than `regex' in most cases, but still needs work.

   * Scheme	    (SchmT, SrcCD)

     For information about Scheme, see *Note Scheme Tape::.

   * `screen'	      (SrcCD, UtilT)

     `screen' is a terminal multiplexer that runs several separate "screens"
     (ttys) on a single character-based terminal.  Each virtual terminal
     emulates a DEC VT100 plus several ISO 6429 (ECMA 48, ANSI X3.64) and ISO
     2022 functions.  Arbitrary keyboard input translation is also supported.
     `screen' sessions can be detached and resumed later on a different
     terminal type.  Output in detached sessions is saved for later viewing.

   * `sed'	   (DjgppD, DosCD, SrcCD, UtilD, UtilT)

     `sed' is a stream-oriented version of `ed'.  GNU `sed' comes with the
     `rx' library, a faster version of `regex' (*note Forthcoming GNUs::.).

   * Sharutils	       (SrcCD, UtilT)

     `shar' makes so-called shell archives out of many files, preparing them
     for transmission by electronic mail services, while `unshar' helps
     unpack these shell archives after reception.  `uuencode' prepares a file
     for transmission over an electronic channel which ignores or otherwise
     mangles the high order bit of bytes, while `uudecode' does the converse
     transformation.

   * Shellutils		(DjgppD, DosCD, SrcCD, UtilT)

     Use shellutils interactively or in shell scripts: `basename', `date',
     `dirname', `echo', `env', `expr', `false', `groups', `hostname', `id',
     `logname', `nice', `nohup', `pathchk', `printenv', `printf', `pwd',
     `sleep', `stty', `su', `tee', `test', `true', `tty', `uname', `users',
     `who', `whoami', and `yes'.

   * GNU Shogi	       (SrcCD, UtilT)

     Shogi is a Japanese game similar to Chess; a major difference is that
     captured pieces can be returned into play.	  GNU Shogi is a variant of
     GNU Chess; GNU Shogi implements the same features as GNU Chess and uses
     similar heuristics.  As a new feature, sequences of partial board
     patterns can be introduced in order to help the program play toward
     specific opening patterns.	 There are both character and X display
     interfaces.   GNU Shogi is primarily supported by Matthias Mutz on
     behalf of the FSF.

   * Smalltalk	       (LangT, SrcCD)

     GNU Smalltalk is an interpreted object-oriented programming language
     system written in highly portable C.  It has been successfully ported to
     many Unix and some other platforms, including DOS (but these non-Unix
     ports are not available from the FSF).  Current features include a
     binary image save capability, the ability to invoke user-written C code
     and pass parameters to it, a GNU Emacs editing mode, a version of the X
     protocol invocable from Smalltalk, optional byte-code compilation
     tracing and byte-code execution tracing, and automatically loaded
     per-user initialization files.  It implements all of the classes and
     protocol in the Smalltalk-80 book "Smalltalk-80: The Language", except
     for the graphic user interface (`GUI') related classes.

     *Note Forthcoming GNUs::, for plans for later releases of Smalltalk.

   * Superopt	      (LangT, SrcCD)

     Superopt is a function sequence generator that uses an exhaustive
     generate-and-test approach to find the shortest instruction sequence for
     a given function.	You provide a function as input, a CPU to generate
     code for, and how many instructions you can accept.  Its application in
     GCC is described in the `ACM SIGPLAN PLDI'92' proceedings.	 Superopt
     supports: SPARC, m68k, m68020, m88k, IBM RS/6000, AMD 29000, Intel
     80x86, Pyramid, DEC Alpha, & HP-PA.

   * `tar'	   (SrcCD, UtilT)

     GNU `tar' includes multivolume support, the ability to archive sparse
     files, automatic archive compression/decompression, remote archives and
     special features that allow `tar' to be used for incremental and full
     backups.  Unfortunately, GNU `tar' implements an early draft of the
     POSIX 1003.1 `ustar' standard which is different from the final
     standard.	Adding support for the new changes in a backward-compatible
     fashion is not trivial.

   * Termcap Library	     (SrcCD, UtilT)

     The GNU Termcap library is a drop-in replacement for `libtermcap.a' on
     any system.  It does not place an arbitrary limit on the size of Termcap
     entries, unlike most other Termcap libraries.  Included is source for the
     `Termcap Manual' in Texinfo format.  *Note Documentation::.

   * TeX	 (SrcCD)

     TeX is a document formatting system that handles complicated
     typesetting, including mathematics.  It is GNU's standard text formatter.

     You can obtain TeX from the University of Washington, which maintains and
     supports a tape distribution of TeX for Unix systems.  The core material
     consists of Karl Berry's `web2c' TeX package, the sources for which are
     available via anonymous ftp; retrieval instructions are in
     `pub/tex/unixtex.ftp' on `ftp.cs.umb.edu'.	 If you receive any
     installation support from the University of Washington, please consider
     sending them a donation.

     To order a full distribution written in `tar' on either a 1/4inch
     4-track QIC-24 cartridge or a 4mm DAT cartridge, send $210.00 to:

	     Pierre A. MacKay
	     Department of Classics
	     DH-10, Denny Hall 218
	     University of Washington
	     Seattle, WA   98195
	     USA

	     Electronic-Mail: `mackay@cs.washington.edu'
	     Telephone: +1-206-543-2268

     Please make checks payable to the University of Washington.  Do not
     specify any other payee.  That causes accounting difficulties.  Checks
     must be in U.S. dollars, drawn on a U.S. bank.  Prepaid orders are the
     only orders that can now be handled.  Overseas sites: please add to the
     base cost $20.00 for shipment via air parcel post, or $30.00 for
     shipment via courier.  Please check with the above for current prices
     and formats.

   * Texinfo	     (DjgppD, DosCD, LangT, LspEmcT, SrcCD, UtilD, UtilT)

     Texinfo is a set of utilities which generate both printed manuals and
     online hypertext documentation (called "Info").  There are also programs
     for reading online Info documents.	 Version 3 has both GNU Emacs Lisp
     and standalone programs written in C or shell script.  Texinfo mode for
     GNU Emacs enables easy editing and updating of Texinfo files.  Programs
     provided include `makeinfo', `info', `texi2dvi', `texindex', `tex2patch',
     and `fixfonts'.  Source for the `Texinfo Manual' is included.  *Note
     Documentation::.

   * Textutils	       (DjgppD, DosCD, SrcCD, UtilT)

     The Textutils programs manipulate textual data.  They include: `cat',
     `cksum', `comm', `csplit', `cut', `expand', `fmt', `fold', `head',
     `join', `nl', `od', `paste', `pr', `sort', `split', `sum', `tac', `tail',
     `tr', `unexpand', `uniq', and `wc'.

   * Tile Forth		(LangT, SrcCD)

     Tile Forth is a 32-bit implementation of the Forth-83 standard written
     in C, allowing it to be easily ported to new systems, and extended with
     "any" C-function (graphics, windowing, etc).   Many Forth libraries with
     full documentation are available including ones for top-down parsing,
     multi-threads, and object oriented programming.

   * `time'	    (SrcCD, UtilT)

     `time' is used to report statistics (usually from a shell) about the
     amount of user, system and real time used by a process.  On some systems
     it also reports memory usage, page faults, and other statistics.

   * `tput'	    (SrcCD, UtilT)

     `tput' is a portable way for shell scripts to use special terminal
     capabilities.  Our `tput' uses the Termcap database, instead of Terminfo
     as most others do.

   * UUCP	  (SrcCD, UtilT)

     This version of UUCP was written by Ian Lance Taylor, and is GNU's
     standard UUCP system.  It supports the `f', `g' and `v' (in all window
     and packet sizes), `G', `t', `e', Zmodem and two new bidirectional (`i'
     and `j') protocols.  If you have a Berkeley sockets library, it can make
     TCP connections.  If you have TLI libraries, it can make TLI
     connections.  Source is included for a Texinfo manual, which is not yet
     published by the FSF.

   * `wdiff'	     (DjgppD, DosCD, SrcCD, UtilT)

     `wdiff' is a front-end to GNU `diff'.  It compares two files, finding
     the words deleted or added to the first to make the second.  It has many
     output formats and works well with terminals and pagers.  `wdiff' is
     very useful when two texts differ only by a few words and paragraphs
     have been refilled.

   * `Ygl'	   (SrcCD, UtilT)

     `Ygl' emulates SGI's GL (Graphics Language) library under X11.  It runs
     under GNU/Linux with XFree, AIX 3.2, ConvexOS, HP-UX 7.0/8.0/9.0, SunOS
     and many others.



Program/Package Cross Reference - (NOT COMPLETELY UP TO DATE)
*******************************

Here is a list of what package each GNU program or library is in.  You can
anonymously FTP a full list in the file `/pub/gnu/ProgramIndex' from a GNU
FTP host (*note How to Get GNU Software::. for a list).

	* a2p perl
	* a2x xopt
	* ac bsd44
	* accton bsd44
	* acl bsd44
	* acm acm
	* acms acm
	* addftinfo Groff
	* adventure bsd44
	* afm2tfm TeX
	* amd bsd44
	* ansitape bsd44
	* AnswerGarden xopt
	* apply bsd44
	* appres xreq
	* apropos bsd44
	* ar Binutils
	* arithmetic bsd44
	* arp bsd44
	* atc bsd44
	* autoconf Autoconf
	* autoheader Autoconf
	* autoreconf Autoconf
	* autoscan Autoconf
	* autoupdate Autoconf
	* auto_box xopt
	* auto_box xreq

	* b2m Emacs
	* backgammon bsd44
	* bad144 bsd44
	* badsect bsd44
	* banner bsd44
	* basename Shellutils
	* bash BASH
	* battlestar bsd44
	* bc bc
	* bcd bsd44
	* bdes bsd44
	* bdftops Ghostscript
	* beach_ball xopt
	* beach_ball xreq
	* beach_ball2 xopt
	* bibtex TeX
	* biff bsd44
	* bison Bison
	* bitmap xreq
	* boggle bsd44
	* bpltobzr Fontutils
	* bugfiler bsd44
	* build ispell
	* bzrto Fontutils

	* c++ GCC
	* c++filt Binutils
	* c2ph perl
	* ca100 xopt
	* caeser bsd44
	* cal bsd44
	* calendar bsd44
	* canfield bsd44
	* cat Textutils
	* cbars wdiff
	* cc GCC
	* cc1 GCC
	* cc1obj GCC
	* cc1plus GCC
	* cccp GCC
	* charspace Fontutils
	* checknr bsd44
	* chess bsd44
	* chflags bsd44
	* chgrp Fileutils
	* ching bsd44
	* chmod Fileutils
	* chown Fileutils
	* chpass bsd44
	* chroot bsd44
	* ci RCS
	* cksum Textutils
	* clisp CLISP
	* clri bsd44
	* cmail xboard
	* cmmf TeX
	* cmodext xopt
	* cmp Diffutils
	* co RCS
	* col bsd44
	* colcrt bsd44
	* colrm bsd44
	* column bsd44
	* comm Textutils
	* compress bsd44
	* comsat bsd44
	* connectd bsd44
	* cp Fileutils
	* cpicker xopt
	* cpio cpio
	* cpp GCC
	* cppstdin perl
	* cribbage bsd44
	* crock xopt
	* csh bsd44
	* csplit Textutils
	* ctags Emacs
	* ctwm xopt
	* cu UUCP
	* cut Textutils
	* cvs CVS
	* cvscheck CVS
	* cvtmail Emacs
	* cxterm xopt

	* d Fileutils
	* date Shellutils
	* dc bc
	* dd Fileutils
	* delatex TeX
	* demangle Binutils
	* descend CVS
	* detex TeX
	* df Fileutils
	* diff Diffutils
	* diff3 Diffutils
	* digest-doc Emacs
	* dipress bsd44
	* dir Fileutils
	* dirname Shellutils
	* dish xopt
	* disklabel bsd44
	* diskpart bsd44
	* dld dld
	* dm bsd44
	* dmesg bsd44
	* doschk doschk
	* dox xopt
	* du Fileutils
	* dump bsd44
	* dumpfs bsd44
	* dvi2tty TeX
	* dvicopy TeX
	* dvips TeX
	* dvitype TeX

	* ecc ecc
	* echo Shellutils
	* ed ed
	* edit-pr GNATS
	* editres xreq
	* edquota bsd44
	* eeprom bsd44
	* egrep grep
	* emacs Emacs
	* emacsclient Emacs
	* emacsserver Emacs
	* emacstool Emacs
	* emu xopt
	* env Shellutils
	* eqn Groff
	* error bsd44
	* es es
	* esdebug es
	* etags Emacs
	* ex nvi
	* expand Textutils
	* expect DejaGnu
	* expr Shellutils
	* exterm xopt

	* f2c f2c
	* factor bsd44
	* fakemail Emacs
	* false Shellutils
	* fastboot bsd44
	* fax2ps HylaFAX
	* faxalter HylaFAX
	* faxanswer HylaFAX
	* faxcover HylaFAX
	* faxd HylaFAX
	* faxd.recv HylaFAX
	* faxmail HylaFAX
	* faxquit HylaFAX
	* faxrcvd HylaFAX
	* faxrm HylaFAX
	* faxstat HylaFAX
	* fc f2c
	* fdraw xopt
	* fgrep grep
	* file bsd44
	* find Findutils
	* find2perl perl
	* finger finger
	* fingerd finger
	* fish bsd44
	* fixfonts Texinfo
	* fixinc.svr4 GCC
	* fixincludes GCC
	* flex flex
	* fmt bsd44
	* fold Textutils
	* font2c Ghostscript
	* fontconvert Fontutils
	* forth Tile Forth
	* forthicon Tile Forth
	* forthtool Tile Forth
	* fortune bsd44
	* fpr bsd44
	* freq ispell
	* freqtbl ispell
	* from bsd44
	* fsck bsd44
	* fsplit bsd44
	* fstat bsd44
	* ftp bsd44
	* ftpd bsd44

	* g++ GCC
	* gas Binutils
	* gawk Gawk
	* gcc GCC
	* gcore bsd44
	* gdb GDB
	* genclass libg++
	* getty bsd44
	* gftodvi TeX
	* gftopk TeX
	* gftype TeX
	* ghostview Ghostview
	* gnats GNATS
	* gnuchess Chess
	* gnuchessc Chess
	* gnuchessn Chess
	* gnuchessr Chess
	* gnuchessx Chess
	* gnupdisp Shogi
	* gnuplot gnuplot
	* gnuplot_x11 gnuplot
	* gnushogi Shogi
	* gnushogir Shogi
	* gnushogix Shogi
	* go GnuGo
	* gpc xopt
	* gpc xreq
	* gperf gperf
	* gperf libg++
	* gprof Binutils
	* graph Graphics
	* grep grep
	* grodvi Groff
	* groff Groff
	* grops Groff
	* grotty Groff
	* groups Shellutils
	* gs Ghostscript
	* gsbj Ghostscript
	* gsdj Ghostscript
	* gslj Ghostscript
	* gslp Ghostscript
	* gsnd Ghostscript
	* gsrenderfont Fontutils
	* gunzip gzip
	* gwm xopt
	* gzexe gzip
	* gzip gzip

	* h2ph perl
	* h2pl perl
	* hack bsd44
	* hangman bsd44
	* head Textutils
	* hello hello
	* hexdump bsd44
	* hexl Emacs
	* hostname Shellutils
	* hp2xx hp2xx
	* hterm xopt

	* i18nOlwmV2 xopt
	* i2mif xopt
	* ico xopt
	* ico xreq
	* id Shellutils
	* ident RCS
	* ifconfig bsd44
	* ifnames Autoconf
	* ImageMagick xopt
	* imageto Fontutils
	* iman xopt
	* imgrotate Fontutils
	* indent indent
	* indxbib Groff
	* inetd bsd44
	* info Texinfo
	* inimf TeX
	* init bsd44
	* initex TeX
	* inn bsd44
	* install Fileutils
	* iostat bsd44
	* ispell ispell
	* ixterm xopt
	* ixx xopt

	* join Textutils
	* jot bsd44
	* jove bsd44

	* kdestroy bsd44
	* kdump bsd44
	* kermit bsd44
	* kgames xopt
	* kgmon bsd44
	* kill bsd44
	* kinit bsd44
	* kinput2 xopt
	* klist bsd44
	* kpasswdd bsd44
	* ksrvtgt bsd44
	* kterm xopt
	* ktrace bsd44

	* lam bsd44
	* larn bsd44
	* lasergnu gnuplot
	* last bsd44
	* lastcomm bsd44
	* latex TeX
	* lclock xopt
	* ld Binutils
	* leave bsd44
	* less less
	* lesskey less
	* libbfd.a Binutils
	* libbfd.a GAS
	* libbfd.a GDB
	* libbzr.a Fontutils
	* libc.a C Library
	* libcompat.a bsd44
	* libcurses.a bsd44
	* libcurses.a nvi
	* libedit.a bsd44
	* libF77.a f2c
	* libg++.a libg++
	* libgdbm.a gdbm
	* libgf.a Fontutils
	* libgmp.a gmp
	* libI77.a f2c
	* libkvm.a bsd44
	* libm.a bsd44
	* libnihcl.a NIHCL
	* libnihclmi.a NIHCL
	* libnihclvec.a NIHCL
	* libnls.a xreq
	* liboctave.a Octave
	* liboldX.a xreq
	* libpbm.a Fontutils
	* libPEXt.a xopt
	* libpk.a Fontutils
	* libresolv.a bsd44
	* librpc.a bsd44
	* libtcl.a DejaGnu
	* libtelnet.a bsd44
	* libterm.a bsd44
	* libtermcap.a Termcap
	* libtfm.a Fontutils
	* libutil.a bsd44
	* libWc.a xopt
	* libwidgets.a Fontutils
	* libX.a xreq
	* libXau.a xreq
	* libXaw.a xreq
	* libXcp.a xopt
	* libXcu.a xopt
	* libXdmcp.a xreq
	* libXmp.a xopt
	* libXmu.a xreq
	* libXO.a xopt
	* libXop.a xopt
	* libXp.a xopt
	* libXpex.a xopt
	* libXt.a xopt
	* libXt.a xreq
	* libXwchar.a xopt
	* liby.a bsd44
	* libYgl.a Ygl
	* limn Fontutils
	* listres xopt
	* listres xreq
	* lkbib Groff
	* ln Fileutils
	* locate Findutils
	* lock bsd44
	* logger bsd44
	* login bsd44
	* logname Shellutils
	* look ispell
	* lookbib Groff
	* lorder bsd44
	* lpr bsd44
	* ls Fileutils

	* m4 m4
	* mail bsd44
	* make Make
	* make-docfile Emacs
	* make-path Emacs
	* makeindex TeX
	* makeinfo Texinfo
	* MakeTeXPK TeX
	* man bsd44
	* man-macros Groff
	* mattrib mtools
	* maze xopt
	* maze xreq
	* mazewar xopt
	* mcd mtools
	* mcopy mtools
	* mdel mtools
	* mdir mtools
	* me-macros Groff
	* merge RCS
	* mesg bsd44
	* mf TeX
	* mformat mtools
	* mft TeX
	* mgdiff xopt
	* mh bsd44
	* mille bsd44
	* mkdep bsd44
	* mkdir Fileutils
	* mkfifo Fileutils
	* mklocale bsd44
	* mkmanifest mtools
	* mkmf bsd44
	* mkmodules CVS
	* mknod Fileutils
	* mkstr bsd44
	* mlabel mtools
	* mm-macros Groff
	* mmd mtools
	* monop bsd44
	* more bsd44
	* morse bsd44
	* mount bsd44
	* mountd bsd44
	* movemail Emacs
	* mprof bsd44
	* mrd mtools
	* mread mtools
	* mren mtools
	* ms-macros Groff
	* msgs bsd44
	* mt cpio
	* mterm xopt
	* mtree bsd44
	* mtype mtools
	* mule MULE
	* muncher xopt
	* mv Fileutils
	* mvdir Fileutils
	* mwrite mtools

	* nethack Nethack
	* netstat bsd44
	* newfs bsd44
	* nfsd bsd44
	* nfsiod bsd44
	* nfsstat bsd44
	* nice Shellutils
	* nl Textutils
	* nlmconv Binutils
	* nm Binutils
	* nohup Shellutils
	* notify HylaFAX
	* nroff Groff
	* number bsd44

	* objc GCC
	* objcopy Binutils
	* objdump Binutils
	* objective-c GCC
	* obst-boot OBST
	* obst-CC OBST
	* obst-cct OBST
	* obst-cgc OBST
	* obst-cmp OBST
	* obst-cnt OBST
	* obst-cpcnt OBST
	* obst-csz OBST
	* obst-dir OBST
	* obst-dmp OBST
	* obst-gen OBST
	* obst-gsh OBST
	* obst-init OBST
	* obst-scp OBST
	* obst-sil OBST
	* obst-stf OBST
	* oclock xreq
	* octave Octave
	* od Textutils
	* oleo Oleo
	* ora-examples xopt

	* p2c p2c
	* pagesize bsd44
	* palette xopt
	* pascal bsd44
	* passwd bsd44
	* paste Textutils
	* patch patch
	* patgen TeX
	* pathalias bsd44
	* pathchk Shellutils
	* pax bsd44
	* pbmplus xopt
	* perl perl
	* pfbtops Groff
	* phantasia bsd44
	* pic Groff
	* pig bsd44
	* ping bsd44
	* pixedit xopt
	* pixmap xopt
	* pktogf TeX
	* pktype TeX
	* plaid xopt
	* plot2fig Graphics
	* plot2plot Graphics
	* plot2ps Graphics
	* plot2tek Graphics
	* pltotf TeX
	* pollrcvd HylaFAX
	* pom bsd44
	* pooltype TeX
	* portmap bsd44
	* ppt bsd44
	* pr Textutils
	* pr-addr GNATS
	* pr-edit GNATS
	* primes bsd44
	* printenv Shellutils
	* printf Shellutils
	* protoize GCC
	* ps bsd44
	* ps2ascii Ghostscript
	* ps2epsi Ghostscript
	* ps2fax HylaFAX
	* psbb Groff
	* pstat bsd44
	* psycho xopt
	* ptx ptx
	* pubdic+ xopt
	* puzzle xopt
	* puzzle xreq
	* pwd Shellutils
	* pyramid xopt

	* query-pr GNATS
	* quiz bsd44
	* quot bsd44
	* quota bsd44
	* quotacheck bsd44
	* quotaon bsd44

	* rain bsd44
	* random bsd44
	* ranlib Binutils
	* rbootd bsd44
	* rc rc
	* rcp bsd44
	* rcs RCS
	* rcs-to-cvs CVS
	* rcs2log Emacs
	* rcsdiff RCS
	* rcsfreeze RCS
	* rcsmerge RCS
	* rdist bsd44
	* reboot bsd44
	* recode recode
	* recvstats HylaFAX
	* refer Groff
	* renice bsd44
	* repquota bsd44
	* restore bsd44
	* rev bsd44
	* rexecd bsd44
	* rlog RCS
	* rlogin bsd44
	* rlogind bsd44
	* rm Fileutils
	* rmail bsd44
	* rmdir Fileutils
	* rmt cpio
	* rmt tar
	* robots bsd44
	* rogue bsd44
	* route bsd44
	* routed bsd44
	* rr xopt
	* rs bsd44
	* rsh bsd44
	* rshd bsd44
	* runtest DejaGnu
	* runtest.exp DejaGnu
	* ruptime bsd44
	* rwho bsd44
	* rwhod bsd44

	* s2p perl
	* sail bsd44
	* savecore bsd44
	* sc bsd44
	* sccs bsd44
	* sccs2rcs CVS
	* scdisp xopt
	* screen screen
	* script bsd44
	* scsiformat bsd44
	* sctext xopt
	* sdiff Diffutils
	* sed sed
	* send-pr GNATS
	* sendfax HylaFAX
	* sendmail bsd44
	* sgi2fax HylaFAX
	* sh bsd44
	* shar Sharutils
	* shinbun xopt
	* shogi Shogi
	* showfont xopt
	* showmount bsd44
	* shutdown bsd44
	* size Binutils
	* sj3 xopt
	* sjxa xopt
	* slattach bsd44
	* sleep Shellutils
	* sliplogin bsd44
	* snake bsd44
	* snftobdf xopt
	* soelim Groff
	* sort Textutils
	* sos2obst OBST
	* spider xopt
	* split Textutils
	* startslip bsd44
	* stf OBST
	* strings Binutils
	* strip Binutils
	* stty Shellutils
	* su Shellutils
	* sum Textutils
	* superopt Superopt
	* swapon bsd44
	* sync bsd44
	* sysctl bsd44
	* syslogd bsd44
	* systat bsd44

	* tac Textutils
	* tail Textutils
	* taintperl perl
	* talk bsd44
	* talkd bsd44
	* tangle TeX
	* tar tar
	* tbl Groff
	* tcl DejaGnu
	* tclsh DejaGnu
	* tcopy bsd44
	* tcp Emacs
	* tee Shellutils
	* tek2plot Graphics
	* telnet bsd44
	* telnetd bsd44
	* test Shellutils
	* test-g++ DejaGnu
	* test-tool DejaGnu
	* tetris bsd44
	* tex TeX
	* tex3patch Texinfo
	* texi2dvi Texinfo
	* texindex Texinfo
	* texspell TeX
	* textfmt HylaFAX
	* tfmtodit Groff
	* tftopl TeX
	* tftp bsd44
	* tftpd bsd44
	* tgrind TeX
	* time time
	* timed bsd44
	* timer Emacs
	* timex xopt
	* tip bsd44
	* tkpostage xopt
	* tn3270 bsd44
	* touch Fileutils
	* tput tput
	* tr Textutils
	* traceroute bsd44
	* transcript HylaFAX
	* transfig xopt
	* trek bsd44
	* trn3 bsd44
	* troff Groff
	* trpt bsd44
	* trsp bsd44
	* true Shellutils
	* tset bsd44
	* tsort bsd44
	* tty Shellutils
	* tunefs bsd44
	* tvtwm xopt
	* twm xreq

	* ul bsd44
	* umount bsd44
	* uname Shellutils
	* uncompress gzip
	* unexpand Textutils
	* unifdef bsd44
	* uniq Textutils
	* unprotoize GCC
	* unshar Sharutils
	* unvis bsd44
	* update bsd44
	* updatedb Findutils
	* users Shellutils
	* uuchk UUCP
	* uucico UUCP
	* uuconv UUCP
	* uucp UUCP
	* uucpd bsd44
	* uudecode Sharutils
	* uudir UUCP
	* uuencode Sharutils
	* uulog UUCP
	* uuname UUCP
	* uupick UUCP
	* uurate UUCP
	* uusched UUCP
	* uustat UUCP
	* uuto UUCP
	* uux UUCP
	* uuxqt UUCP

	* v Fileutils
	* vacation bsd44
	* vandal xopt
	* vcdiff Emacs
	* vdir Fileutils
	* vftovp TeX
	* vgrind bsd44
	* vi nvi
	* viewres xopt
	* viewres xreq
	* vine xopt
	* vipw bsd44
	* virmf TeX
	* virtex TeX
	* vis bsd44
	* vmstat bsd44
	* vptovf TeX

	* w bsd44
	* wakeup Emacs
	* wall bsd44
	* wargames bsd44
	* wc Textutils
	* wdiff wdiff
	* weave TeX
	* what bsd44
	* whatis bsd44
	* whereis bsd44
	* who Shellutils
	* whoami Shellutils
	* whois bsd44
	* window bsd44
	* winterp xopt
	* wish DejaGnu
	* worm bsd44
	* worms bsd44
	* write bsd44
	* wump bsd44

	* x11perf xreq
	* x2p perl
	* xalarm xopt
	* xancur xopt
	* xargs Findutils
	* xauth xreq
	* xbfe Fontutils
	* xbiff xopt
	* xbiff xreq
	* xboard xboard
	* xboing xopt
	* xbuffy3 xopt
	* xcalc xopt
	* xcalc xreq
	* xcalendar xopt
	* xcdplayer xopt
	* xcell xopt
	* xclipboard xreq
	* xclock xreq
	* xcmdmenu xopt
	* xcms xopt
	* xcmsdb xreq
	* xcmstest xreq
	* xco xopt
	* xcolorize xopt
	* xcolors xopt
	* xconsole xreq
	* xcrtca xopt
	* xdaliclock xopt
	* xdiary xopt
	* xditview Groff
	* xditview xopt
	* xditview xreq
	* xdm xreq
	* xdpyinfo xreq
	* xdu xopt
	* xdvi TeX
	* xdvi xopt
	* xdvorak xopt
	* xearth xopt
	* xed xopt
	* xedit xopt
	* xedit xreq
	* xev xopt
	* xev xreq
	* xexit xopt
	* xeyes xopt
	* xeyes xreq
	* xfd xreq
	* xfed xopt
	* xfedor xopt
	* xfeoak xopt
	* xferstats HylaFAX
	* xfig xopt
	* xfontsel xopt
	* xfontsel xreq
	* xforecast xopt
	* xgas xopt
	* xgas xreq
	* xgc xopt
	* xgc xreq
	* xhearts xopt
	* xhelp xopt
	* xhost xreq
	* xinit xreq
	* xkeycaps xopt
	* xkill xreq
	* xlax xopt
	* xlayout xopt
	* xlbiff xopt
	* xless xopt
	* xload xopt
	* xload xreq
	* xlogin xopt
	* xlogo xreq
	* xlsatoms xreq
	* xlsclients xreq
	* xlsfonts xreq
	* xmag xreq
	* xmail xopt
	* xmailbox xopt
	* xmailwatcher xopt
	* xman xopt
	* xman xreq
	* xmandel xopt
	* xmessage xopt
	* xmeter xopt
	* xmh xreq
	* xmh-icons xopt
	* xmh.editor xopt
	* xmodmap xreq
	* xmon xopt
	* xmove xopt
	* xmphone xopt
	* xpd xopt
	* xphoon xopt
	* xpipeman xopt
	* xplot Graphics
	* xpostit xopt
	* xpr xopt
	* xpr xreq
	* xprompt xopt
	* xproof xopt
	* xprop xreq
	* xpserv xopt
	* xrdb xreq
	* xrefresh xreq
	* xrsh xopt
	* xrubik xopt
	* xrunclient xopt
	* xscope xopt
	* xscreensaver xopt
	* xsession xopt
	* xset xreq
	* xsetroot xreq
	* xshogi xshogi
	* xstdcmap xreq
	* xstr bsd44
	* xtalk xopt
	* xterm xreq
	* xterm_color xopt
	* xtetris xopt
	* xTeXcad.13 xopt
	* xtiff xopt
	* xtree xopt
	* xtv xopt
	* xwd xreq
	* xwininfo xreq
	* xwud xreq

	* yacc bsd44
	* yes Shellutils
	* youbin xopt
	* yow Emacs

	* zcat gzip
	* zcmp gzip
	* zdiff gzip
	* zforce gzip
	* zgrep gzip
	* zmore gzip
	* znew gzip

	* [ Shellutils



Tapes
*****

We offer Unix source code on tapes in `tar' format on these media:

   * 4mm DAT cartridges

   * 8mm Exabyte cartridges

   * Sun DC300XLP QIC-24 1/4in cartridges (readable on some other systems)

   * Hewlett-Packard 16-track DC600HC 1/4in cartridges

   * IBM RS/6000 QIC-150 1/4in cartridges (readable on some other systems)

   * 1600bpi 9-track 1/2in reel tape

The contents of the reel and various cartridge tapes for Unix systems are the
same (except for the RS/6000 Emacs tape, which also has executables for
Emacs); only the media are different.  For pricing information, see the *note
Free Software Foundation Order Form::..	 Source code for the manuals and
reference cards is included (*note Documentation::.).

Some of the files on the tapes may be compressed with `gzip' to make them
fit.  Refer to the top-level `README' file at the beginning of each tape for
instructions on uncompressing them.  `uncompress' and `unpack' *do not work*!



Languages Tape - (VERSION NUMBERS NOT COMPLETELY UP TO DATE)
--------------

This tape contains programming tools: compilers, interpreters, and related
programs (parsers, conversion programs, debuggers, etc.).

	* Binutils 2.5.2
	* Bison 1.22
	* C Library 1.09
	* DejaGnu 1.2
	* dld 3.2.3
	* ecc 1.2.1
	* f2c 1994.11.03
	* flex 2.4.7
	* Gawk 2.15.5
	* GCC/G++/Objective-C 2.7.0
	* GDB 4.13
	* gdbm 1.7.3
	* gmp 1.3.2
	* gperf 2.1a
	* gzip 1.2.4
	* indent 1.9.1
	* libg++ 2.6.1
	* libobjects 0.1.0
	* Make 3.72.1
	* NIHCL 3.0
	* OBST 3.4
	* Octave 1.0
	* p2c 1.20
	* perl 4.036
	* perl 5.000
	* regex 0.12
	* rx 0.05
	* Smalltalk 1.1.1
	* Superopt 2.3
	* Texinfo 3.1
	* Tile Forth 2.1



Lisps and Emacs Tape - (VERSION NUMBERS NOT COMPLETELY UP TO DATE)
--------------------

This tape has Common Lisp systems and libraries, GNU Emacs, assorted
extensions that work with GNU Emacs, and a few other important utilities.

	* Calc 2.02c
	* CLISP 1994.10.26
	* Common Lisp 1.1
	* elib 0.06
	* Emacs 18.59
	* Emacs 19.29
	* GNU Emacs Lisp Reference Manaul, Ed. 2.3
	* gzip 1.2.4
	* Make 3.72.1
	* MULE 2.1
	* PCL 1993.03.18
	* Texinfo 3.1



Utilities Tape - (VERSION NUMBERS NOT COMPLETELY UP TO DATE)
--------------

This tape consists mostly of smaller utilities and miscellaneous applications.

	* acm 4.6
	* Autoconf 1.11
	* Autoconf 2.1
	* BASH 1.14.2
	* bc 1.03
	* Chess 4.0.73
	* cpio 2.3
	* CVS 1.3
	* dc 0.2
	* Diffutils 2.7
	* doschk 1.1
	* ed 0.2
	* es 0.84
	* Fileutils 3.12
	* Findutils 4.1
	* finger 1.37
	* HylaFAX 2.2.2.1
	* Fontutils 0.6
	* Ghostscript 2.6.1
	* Ghostview 1.5
	* GNATS 3.2
	* GnuGo 1.1
	* gnuplot 3.5
	* Graphics 0.17
	* grep 2.0
	* Groff 1.09
	* gzip 1.2.4
	* hello 1.3
	* hp2xx 3.1.4
	* ispell 3.1.13
	* m4 1.3
	* Make 3.72.1
	* mkisofs 1.01
	* mm 1.07
	* mtools 2.0.7
	* Nethack 3.1.3
	* nvi 1.34
	* Oleo 1.6
	* patch 2.1
	* ptx 0.4
	* rc 1.4
	* RCS 5.6.0.1
	* recode 3.4
	* saoimage 1.08
	* screen 3.5.2
	* screen 3.6.0
	* sed 1.18 & 2.05
	* Sharutils 4.1
	* Shellutils 1.12
	* Shogi 1.2.02
	* tar 1.11.2
	* Termcap 1.2
	* Texinfo 3.1
	* Textutils 1.11
	* time 1.6
	* tput 1.0
	* UUCP 1.05
	* wdiff 0.04
	* xboard 3.1.1
	* xshogi 1.2.02
	* Ygl 2.9



Scheme Tape
-----------

Scheme is a simplified, lexically-scoped dialect of Lisp.  It was designed at
MIT and other universities to teach students the art of programming, and to
research new parallel programming constructs and compilation techniques.

This tape now contains MIT Scheme 7.3, which conforms to the "Revised^4
Report On the Algorithmic Language Scheme" (MIT AI Lab Memo 848b), for which
TeX source is included.	 It is written partly in C, but is presently hard to
bootstrap.  Binaries that can be used to bootstrap Scheme are available for:

   * HP 9000 series 300, 400, 700 & 800 running HP-UX 7.0 or 8.0

   * NeXT running NeXT OS 1.0 or 2.0

   * Sun-3 or Sun-4 running SunOS 4.1

   * DECstation 3100/5100 running Ultrix 4.0

   * Sony NeWS-3250 running NEWS OS 5.01

   * Vax running 4.3BSD

If your system is not on this list and you don't enjoy the bootstrap
challenge, see the JACAL item in *Note GNU Software::.



X11 Tapes
---------

The two X11 tapes contain Version 11, Release 6 of the X Window System.	 The
first tape contains all of the core software, documentation and some
contributed clients.  We call this the "required" X tape since it is
necessary for running X or running GNU Emacs under X.  The second, "optional"
tape contains contributed libraries and other toolkits, the Andrew User
Interface System, games, and other programs.

The X11 Required tape also contains all fixes and patches released to date.
We update this tape as new fixes and patches are released for programs on
both tapes.  *Note Tape & CD-ROM Subscription Service::.

We will distribute X11R5 on tape until X11R6 is stable, and on the *Note
November 1993 Source Code CD-ROM::, while supplies last.



Berkeley 4.4BSD-Lite Tape
-------------------------

The "4.4BSD-Lite" release is the last from the Computer Systems Research
Group at the University of California at Berkeley.  It has most of the BSD
software system, except for a few files that remain proprietary.  It is much
more complete than the previous "Net2" release.



VMS Emacs and VMS Compiler Tapes
--------------------------------

We offer two VMS tapes.	 One has just GNU Emacs 18.59 (none of the other
software on the *Note Lisps/Emacs Tape::, is included).	 The other has GCC
2.3.3, Bison 1.19 (to compile GCC), GAS 1.38 (to assemble GCC's output) and
some library and include files (none of the other software on the *Note
Languages Tape::, is included).	 We are not aware of a GDB port for VMS.
Both VMS tapes have DEC VAX executables from which you can bootstrap, as the
DEC VMS C compiler cannot compile GCC.	We do not have executables for DEC
Alpha VMS systems.  Please do not ask us to devote effort to VMS support,
because it is peripheral to the GNU Project.



CD-ROMs
*******

We offer these CD-ROMs:

   * *Note MS-DOS CD-ROM::, expected in September 1995.

   * *Note Debian GNU/Linux CD-ROM::, expected in late fall 1995.

   * *Note Compiler Tools Binaries CD-ROM::.

   * *Note June 1995 Source Code CD-ROM::.

   * *Note May 1994 Source Code CD-ROM::.

   * *Note November 1993 Source Code CD-ROM::.

Our CD-ROMs are in ISO 9660 format & can be mounted as a read-only file
system on most computers.  If your driver supports it you can mount each
CD-ROM with "Rock Ridge" extensions (the MS-DOS CD-ROM is only in ISO 9660
format) & it will look just like an ordinary Unix file system, rather than
one full of truncated & otherwise mangled names that fit vanilla ISO 9660.

You can build most of the software without copying the sources off the CD.
You only need enough disk space for object files and intermediate build
targets.



Pricing of the GNU CD-ROMs
--------------------------

If a business or organization is ultimately paying, the June 1995 Source CD
costs $240.  It costs $60 if you, an individual, are paying out of your own
pocket.	 The December 1994 Compiler Tools Binaries CD-ROM costs $220 for a
business or organization, and $55 for an individual.



What do the individual and company prices mean?

The software on our disk is free; anyone can copy it and anyone can run it.
What we charge for is the physical disk and the service of distribution.

We charge two different prices depending on who is buying.  When a company or
other organization buys the June 1995 Source CD-ROM, we charge $240.  When an
individual buys the same disk, we charge just $60.

This distinction is not a matter of who is allowed to use the software.	 In
either case, once you have a copy, you can distribute as many copies as you
wish, and there's no restriction on who can have or run them.  The price
distinction is entirely a matter of what kind of entity pays for the CD.

You, the reader, are certainly an individual, not a company.  If you are
buying a disk "in person", then you are probably doing so as an individual.
But if you expect to be reimbursed by your employer, then the disk is really
for the company; so please pay the company price and get reimbursed for it.
We won't try to check up on you--we use the honor system--so please cooperate.

Buying CDs at the company price is very helpful for GNU; just 140 Source CDs
at that price supports an FSF programmer or tech writer for a year.



Why is there an individual price?

In the past, our distribution tapes have been ordered mainly by companies.
The CD at the price of $240 provides them with all of our software for a much
lower price than they would previously have paid for six different tapes.  To
lower the price more would cut into the FSF's funds very badly, and decrease
the software development we can do.

However, for individuals, $240 is too high a price; hardly anyone could
afford that.  So we decided to make CDs available to individuals at the lower
price of $60.



Is there a maximum price?

Our stated prices are minimum prices.  Feel free to pay a higher price if you
wish to support GNU development more.  The sky's the limit; we will accept as
high a price as you can offer.	Or simply give a donation (tax-deductible in
the U.S.) to the Free Software Foundation, a tax-exempt public charity.



MS-DOS CD-ROM
-------------

We expect to release our first CD-ROM for MS-DOS in September, 1995.  Contact
either address on page 1 for more information at that time.   The MS-DOS CD
will be packaged inside a book describing its contents.	 It will have all the
sources and executables on the MS-DOS Diskettes.  For details and version
numbers, *note MS-DOS Diskettes::..



Debian GNU/Linux CD-ROM
-----------------------

The FSF expects to ship a CD-ROM with Debian GNU/Linux on it in the late fall
1995.  This CD will be packaged inside a book describing its contents.
m{No Value For "ergegrafkludge"} Debian GNU/Linux is a complete operating
system for x86 machines, available in both source code and binary form.	 It
is a GNU/Linux system--that is to say, a variant GNU system which uses Linux
as the kernel.	(All the systems now available which use the Linux kernel are
GNU/Linux systems.)

Debian is being developed by Ian Murdock and the Debian Association in
conjunction with the Free Software Foundation.	We are distributing it as an
interim measure until the GNU kernel (the Hurd) is ready for users.

Debian GNU/Linux is available for FTP at `ftp.cps.cmich.edu' in file
`/pub/debian'.	For more information about the Debian Project and how to get
involved, see `/pub/gnu/GNUinfo/DEBIAN' on a GNU FTP host (*note How to Get
GNU Software::. for a list).



December 1994 Compiler Tools Binaries CD-ROM
--------------------------------------------

We are now offering a CD-ROM that contains executables for GNU compiler tools
for some systems which lack a compiler.	 This enables the people who use
these systems to compile GNU and other free software without having to buy a
proprietary compiler.  You can also use the GNU compilation system to compile
your own C/C++/Objective-C programs.

We hope to have more systems on each update of this CD.	 If you can help
build binaries for new systems (especially those that don't come with a C
compiler), or have one to suggest, please contact us at the addresses on page
1.

These packages:

	*DJGPP 1.12.m2 from GCC 2.6.0
	*GCC/G++/Objective-C 2.6.2
	*GNU C Library 1.09
	*GDB 4.13
	*Binutils 2.5.2
	*Bison 1.22
	*Emacs 19.26 (MS-DOS only)
	*Flex 2.4.7
	*Make 3.72.1
	*libg++ 2.6.1

On these platforms:

	*`i386-msdos'
	*`hppa1.1-hp-hpux9'
	*`sparc-sun-solaris2'
	*`sparc-sun-sunos4.1'



Source Code CD-ROMs
-------------------

We have several versions of our Source Code CD-ROMs available:

   * *Note June 1995 Source Code CD-ROM::.

   * *Note May 1994 Source Code CD-ROM::.

   * *Note November 1993 Source Code CD-ROM::.

The older Source Code CDs will be available while supplies last at a reduced
price; see the *note Free Software Foundation Order Form::..

All of the Source Code CDs also contain Texinfo source for the GNU manuals
listed in *Note Documentation::.

The VMS tapes' contents are *not* included.  Many programs that are only on
MS-DOS diskettes and not on the tapes are also *not* included.	The contents
of the MIT Scheme & X11 Optional tapes are *not* on the November 1993 & May
1994 Source CDs.  *Note Tapes:: & *Note MS-DOS Diskettes::.

There are no precompiled programs on these Source CDs.	You will need a C
compiler (programs which need some other interpreter or compiler normally
provide the C source for a bootstrapping program).  We ship C compiler
binaries for some systems on the *Note Compiler Tools Binaries CD-ROM::.



June 1995 Source Code CD-ROM - (VERSION NUMBERS NOT COMPLETELY UP TO DATE)
............................

We now have the sixth edition of our Source CD.	 This CD has Edition X.X for
version 19 of the `GNU Emacs Lisp Reference Manual' & some additional
software; not all FSF distributed software is included (*note Source Code
CD-ROMs::.).  It contains the following packages:
     *XXXXX UPDATE THIS LIST XXXXX*
	*acm 4.5
	*Autoconf 1.10
	*BASH 1.13.5
	*bc 1.02
	*Binutils 2.3
	*Bison 1.22
	*C Library 1.08
	*Calc 2.02c
	*Chess 4.0.69
	*CLISP 1994.01.08
	*Common Lisp 1.0
	*cpio 2.3
	*CVS 1.3
	*dc 0.2
	*DejaGnu 1.2
	*Diffutils 2.6
	*dld 3.2.3
	*doschk 1.1
	*ecc 1.2.1
	*ed 0.1
	*elib 0.06
	*Emacs 18.59
	*Emacs 19.23
	*es 0.84
	*f2c 1994.04.14
	*Fileutils 3.9
	*find 3.8
	*finger 1.37
	*flex 2.4.6
	*Fontutils 0.6
	*GAS 1.36.utah
	*GAS 2.2
	*Gawk 2.15.4
	*GCC 2.5.8
	*GDB 4.12
	*gdbm 1.7.1
	*Ghostscript 2.6.1
	*Ghostview 1.5
	*Ghostview for Windows 1.0
	*gmp 1.3.2
	*GNATS 3.2
	*GnuGo 1.1
	*gnuplot 3.5
	*gperf 2.1a
	*Graphics 0.17
	*grep 2.0
	*Groff 1.09
	*gzip 1.2.4
	*hello 1.3
	*hp2xx 3.1.4
	*indent 1.9.1
	*ispell 4.0
	*libg++ 2.5.3
	*m4 1.1
	*Make 3.71
	*MandelSpawn 0.07
	*mtools 2.0.7
	*MULE 1.0
	*NetFax 3.2.1
	*Nethack 3.1.3
	*NIHCL 3.0
	*nvi 1.11
	*Octave 1.0
	*Oleo 1.5
	*p2c 1.20
	*patch 2.1
	*PCL 1993.03.18
	*perl 4.036
	*ptx 0.3
	*rc 1.4
	*RCS 5.6.0.1
	*recode 3.3
	*regex 0.12
	*screen 3.5.2
	*sed 2.05
	*shellutils 1.9.4
	*Shogi 1.1.02
	*Smalltalk 1.1.1
	*Superopt 2.3
	*tar 1.11.2
	*Termcap 1.2
	*TeX 3.1
	*Texinfo 3.1
	*Textutils 1.9.1
	*Tile Forth 2.1
	*time 1.6
	*tput 1.0
	*UUCP 1.05
	*uuencode 1.0
	*wdiff 0.04
	*X11R6
	*xboard 3.0.9
	*xshogi 1.2.02



May 1994 Source Code CD-ROM
...........................

We still have the fourth edition of our Source CD, at a reduced price.	This
CD has Edition 2.3 for version 19 of the `GNU Emacs Lisp Reference Manual' &
some additional software; not all FSF distributed software is included (*note
Source Code CD-ROMs::.).  It contains these packages:
	*acm 4.5
	*Autoconf 1.10
	*BASH 1.13.5
	*bc 1.02
	*Binutils 2.3
	*Bison 1.22
	*C Library 1.08
	*Calc 2.02c
	*Chess 4.0.69
	*CLISP 1994.01.08
	*Common Lisp 1.0
	*cpio 2.3
	*CVS 1.3
	*dc 0.2
	*DejaGnu 1.2
	*Diffutils 2.6
	*dld 3.2.3
	*doschk 1.1
	*ecc 1.2.1
	*ed 0.1
	*elib 0.06
	*Emacs 18.59
	*Emacs 19.23
	*es 0.84
	*f2c 1994.04.14
	*Fileutils 3.9
	*find 3.8
	*finger 1.37
	*flex 2.4.6
	*Fontutils 0.6
	*GAS 1.36.utah
	*GAS 2.2
	*Gawk 2.15.4
	*GCC 2.5.8
	*GDB 4.12
	*gdbm 1.7.1
	*Ghostscript 2.6.1
	*Ghostview 1.5
	*Ghostview for Windows 1.0
	*gmp 1.3.2
	*GNATS 3.2
	*GnuGo 1.1
	*gnuplot 3.5
	*gperf 2.1a
	*Graphics 0.17
	*grep 2.0
	*Groff 1.09
	*gzip 1.2.4
	*hello 1.3
	*hp2xx 3.1.4
	*indent 1.9.1
	*ispell 4.0
	*libg++ 2.5.3
	*m4 1.1
	*Make 3.71
	*MandelSpawn 0.07
	*mtools 2.0.7
	*MULE 1.0
	*NetFax 3.2.1
	*Nethack 3.1.3
	*NIHCL 3.0
	*nvi 1.11
	*Octave 1.0
	*Oleo 1.5
	*p2c 1.20
	*patch 2.1
	*PCL 1993.03.18
	*perl 4.036
	*ptx 0.3
	*rc 1.4
	*RCS 5.6.0.1
	*recode 3.3
	*regex 0.12
	*screen 3.5.2
	*sed 2.05
	*shellutils 1.9.4
	*Shogi 1.1.02
	*Smalltalk 1.1.1
	*Superopt 2.3
	*tar 1.11.2
	*Termcap 1.2
	*TeX 3.1
	*Texinfo 3.1
	*Textutils 1.9.1
	*Tile Forth 2.1
	*time 1.6
	*tput 1.0
	*UUCP 1.05
	*uuencode 1.0
	*wdiff 0.04
	*X11R6
	*xboard 3.0.9
	*xshogi 1.2.02



November 1993 Source Code CD-ROM
................................

We still have the third edition of our Source CD, at a reduced price.  It
contains X11R5, as we feel that people should have a choice between X11R5 and
X11R6 until the latter is stable.  This CD has Edition 2.2 for version 19 of
the `GNU Emacs Lisp Reference Manual' & some additional software; not all FSF
distributed software is included (*note Source Code CD-ROMs::.).  It contains
the following packages:
	*acm 3.1
	*Autoconf 1.7
	*BASH 1.13.4
	*bc 1.02
	*Binutils 1.9 2.3
	*Bison 1.22
	*C Library 1.06.7
	*Calc 2.02b
	*Chess 4.0p62
	*CLISP 93.11.08
	*cpio 2.3
	*CVS 1.3
	*dc 0.2
	*DejaGnu 1.0.1
	*Diffutils 2.6
	*dld 3.2.3
	*doschk 1.1
	*ecc 1.2.1
	*elib 0.06
	*Emacs 18.59
	*Emacs 19.21
	*es 0.84
	*f2c 1993.04.28
	*Fileutils 3.9
	*find 3.8
	*finger 1.37
	*flex 2.3.8
	*Fontutils 0.6
	*GAS 1.36.utah
	*GAS 1.38.1
	*GAS 2.2
	*Gawk 2.15.3
	*GCC 2.5.4
	*GDB 4.11
	*gdbm 1.7.1
	*Ghostscript 2.6.1
	*Ghostview 1.5
	*Ghostview for Windows 1.0
	*gmp 1.3.2
	*GNATS 3.01
	*GnuGo 1.1
	*gnuplot 3.5
	*gperf 2.1a
	*Graphics 0.17
	*grep 2.0
	*Groff 1.08
	*gzip 1.2.4
	*hello 1.3
	*hp2xx 3.1.3a
	*indent 1.8
	*Ispell 4.0
	*less 177
	*libg++ 2.5.1
	*m4 1.1
	*Make 3.69.1
	*MandelSpawn 0.06
	*mtools 2.0.7
	*MULE 1.0
	*NetFax 3.2.1
	*Nethack 3.1.3
	*NIHCL 3.0
	*Oleo 1.5
	*p2c 1.20
	*patch 2.1
	*PCL 93.03.18
	*perl 4.036
	*ptx 0.3
	*rc 1.4
	*RCS 5.6.0.1
	*recode 3.2.4
	*regex 0.12
	*screen 3.5.2
	*sed 1.18 2.03
	*Shellutils 1.9.1
	*Shogi 1.1p02
	*Smalltalk 1.1.1
	*Superopt 2.3
	*tar 1.11.2
	*Termcap 1.2
	*TeX 3.1
	*Texinfo 3.1
	*Tile Forth 2.1
	*time 1.6
	*time 1.6
	*tput 1.0
	*UUCP 1.04
	*uuencode 1.0
	*wdiff 0.04
	*X11R5




MS-DOS Diskettes
****************

The FSF distributes some of the GNU software ported to MS-DOS, on 3.5inch
1.44MB diskettes. These disks have both sources and executables.



DJGPP Diskettes - (VERSION NUMBERS NOT COMPLETELY UP TO DATE)
---------------

We offer DJGPP on 30 diskettes.	 For further details, see *Note GNU
Software::.  The DJGPP diskettes contain the following:

	* bc 1.03
	* Binutils 2.4
	* Bison 1.22
	* cpio 2.3
	* Diffutils 2.6
	* doschk 1.1
	* Fileutils 3.9
	* Findutils 3.8
	* GAS 2.4
	* Gawk 2.15.5
	* GCC 2.6.0
	* GDB 4.12
	* Ghostscript 2.6.1
	* Ghostview for Windows 1.0
	* Groff 1.09
	* gzip 1.24
	* hello 1.3
	* indent 1.9
	* ispell 4.0
	* m4 1.2
	* Make 3.71
	* patch 2.1
	* sed 1.18
	* shellutils 1.9
	* Texinfo 3.1
	* texutils 1.9
	* wdiff 0.04



Emacs Diskettes - (VERSION NUMBERS NOT COMPLETELY UP TO DATE)
---------------

Two versions of GNU Emacs are included on the Emacs diskettes we distribute:
GNU Emacs version 19.29 handles 8-bit character sets; the other, MULE version
2.1, handles 16-bit character sets including Kanji.



Selected Utilities Diskettes - (NOT COMPLETELY UP TO DATE)
----------------------------

The GNUish MS-DOS Project ported GNU software to PC compatibles.  Though the
GNUish Project is no longer active, users still ask for these ports that were
done several years ago.	 You can anonymous FTP files
`/pub/gnu/MicrosPorts/MSDOS*' from `prep.ai.mit.edu' to find out how to
access these ports over the Internet.  We offer these programs on five
diskettes.  In general, this software will run on 8086 and 80286-based 16-bit
machines; an 80386 is not required.  Some of these utilities are necessarily
missing features.   Included are: `cpio', `diff', `find', `flex', `gdbm',
`grep', `indent', `less', `m4', `make', `ptx', RCS, `sed', `shar', `sort', &
Texinfo.



Windows Diskette
----------------

We offer GNU Chess and `gnuplot' for Microsoft Windows on a single diskette.



Tape & CD-ROM Subscription Service
**********************************

If you do not have net access, our subscription service enables you to stay
current with the latest GNU developments.  For a one-time cost equivalent to
three tapes or CD-ROMs (plus shipping in some cases), we will ship you four
new versions of the tape of your choice or the Source Code CD-ROM.  The tapes
are sent each quarter; the CD-ROMs are sent as they are issued (which is
between two and four times a year.)

Regularly, we will send you a new version of an Lisps/Emacs, Languages,
Utilities, or X Window System (X11R6) Required tape or the Source CD-ROM.
The MIT Scheme and X Window System Optional tapes are not changed often
enough to warrant quarterly updates.  We do not yet know if we will be
offering subscriptions to the Compiler Tools Binaries or our new CD-ROMs.

Since Emacs 19 is on the Lisps/Emacs Tape and the Source CD-ROM, a
subscription to either is an easy way to keep current with Emacs 19 as it
evolves.

A subscription is an easy way to keep up with the regular bug fixes to the X
Window System.	We update the X11R6 Required tape as fixes and patches are
issued throughout the year.  Each new edition of the *Note Source Code
CD-ROMs::, also has updated sources for the X Window System.

Please note: In two cases, you must pay 4 times the normal shipping required
for a single order when you pay for each subscription.	If you're in Alaska,
Hawaii, or Puerto Rico you must add $20.00 for shipping for each
subscription.  If you're outside of U.S., Canada, and Puerto Rico, you have
to add $80.00 for each subscription.  See "Unix and VMS Software" & "Shipping
Instructions" on the *note Free Software Foundation Order Form::..



The Deluxe Distribution
***********************

The Free Software Foundation has been asked repeatedly to create a package
that provides executables for all of our software.  Normally we offer only
sources.  In addition to providing binaries with the source code, the Deluxe
Distribution includes a complete set of our printed manuals and reference
cards.

The FSF Deluxe Distribution contains the binaries and sources to hundreds of
different programs including GNU Emacs, the GNU C Compiler, the GNU Debugger,
the complete X Window System, and all the GNU utilities.

We will make a Deluxe Distribution for any machine, with any operating
system.	 We will send someone to your office to do the compilation, if we
can't find a suitable machine close to us!  However, we can only compile the
programs that already support your chosen machine and system  - porting is a
separate matter (if you wish to commission a port, see the GNU Service
Directory, details in *Note Free Software Support::).  Compiling all these
programs take time; a Deluxe Distribution for an unusual machine will take
longer to produce then one for a common machine.  Please contact the FSF
office if you have any questions.

We supply the software in one of these tape formats in Unix `tar' format:
1600 or 6250bpi 1/2in reel, Sun DC300XLP 1/4in cartridge - QIC24,
Hewlett-Packard 16-track DC600HC 1/4in cartridge, IBM RS/6000 1/4in cartridge
- QIC 150, Exabyte 8mm cartridge, or DAT 4mm cartridge.	 If your computer
cannot read any of these, please contact us to see if we can handle your
format.

The manuals included are one each of the `Bison', `Calc', `Gawk', `GNU C
Compiler', `GNU C Library', `GDB', `Flex', `GNU Emacs Lisp Reference',
`Programming in Emacs Lisp: An Introduction', `Make', `Texinfo', & `Termcap'
manuals; six copies of the `GNU Emacs' manual; and a packet of ten reference
cards each for GNU Emacs, Bison, Calc, Flex, & GDB.   Every Deluxe
Distribution also includes a copy of the latest editions of our CD-ROMs
(including the MS-DOS CD & the Debian GNU/Linux CD when they are available)
that contain sources of our software & compiler tool binaries for some
systems.  The MS-DOS CD is in ISO 9660 format.	The other CDs are in ISO 9660
format with Rock Ridge extensions.

The price of the Deluxe Distribution is $5000 (shipping included).  These
sales provide enormous financial assistance to help the FSF develop more free
software.  To order, please fill out the "Deluxe Distribution" section on the
*note Free Software Foundation Order Form::.  and send it to:

	Free Software Foundation, Inc.
	59 Temple Place -- Suite 330
	Boston, MA   02111--1307
	USA

	Telephone: +1-617-542-5942
	Fax (including Japan):	     +1-617-542-2652
	Free Dial Fax (in Japan):
		   0031-13-2473 (KDD)
		   0066-3382-0158 (IDC)
	Electronic mail: gnu@prep.ai.mit.edu



FSF T-shirt
***********

Our latest T-shirt has artwork by Berkeley, CA artist Etienne Suvasa.  The
front has the ever-popular picture of GNArnold from the `Flex Manual', while
the back has the Preamble to the GNU General Public License.

They are available in two colors, Natural & Black.  Natural is an off-white,
unbleached, undyed, environment-friendly cotton, printed with black ink, & is
great for tye-dyeing or displaying as is.  Black is printed with white ink &
is perfect for late night hacking.  All shirts are thick 100% cotton, & are
available in sizes M, L, XL & XXL.  This shirt makes a great gift for your
favorite hacker!

The previous version of the T-shirt will be available while supplies last,
but please contact the FSF to see if we have what you would like before
ordering.



Free Software Foundation Order Form
***********************************

All items are distributed with permission to copy and to redistribute.
Texinfo source for each manual and source for each reference card is on
the appropriate tape, diskette, or CD-ROM; the prices for these magnetic
media do not include printed documentation.  All items are provided on
an ``as is'' basis, with no warranty of any kind.  Please allow six
weeks for delivery (though it won't usually take that long).


     PRICE AND CONTENTS MAY CHANGE WITHOUT NOTICE AFTER January 31, 1996.



Unix and VMS Software
---------------------

These tapes in the formats indicated (*note Tapes::., for contents):

	Please circle the dollar amount for each tape you order.

		Reel to	  Sun (1)   HP	      IBM (2)	Exabyte	 DAT
		reel			      RS/6000
		Unix tar  Unix tar  Unix tar  Unix tar	Unix tar Unix tar
		9-track	  QIC-24    16-track  QIC-150
		1600 bpi  DC300XLP  DC600HC   DC600A
		1/2" reel 1/4" c.t. 1/4" c.t. 1/4" c.t. 8mm c.t. 4mm c.t.

    (c.t. = cartridge tape)

Lisps/Emacs	$200	  $210	    $230      $215 (3)	$205	 $225
Languages	$200	  $210	    $230      $215	$205	 $225
Utilities	$200	  $210	    $230      $215	$205	 $225
4.4BSD-Lite	$200	  $210	    $230      $215	$205	 $225
Scheme		$200	  $210	    $230      $215	$205	 $225
X11R5-Required	$200	  $210	    $230      $215	$205	 $225
X11R5-Optional	$200	  $210	    $230      $215	$205	 $225
X11R6-Required	$200	  $210	    $230      $215	$205	 $225
X11R6-Optional	$200	  $210	    $230      $215	$205	 $225

	 (1) Sun tapes can be read on some other Unix systems.
	 (2) IBM RS/6000 tapes can be read on some other Unix systems.
	 (3) The IBM Emacs tape also has binaries for GNU Emacs.


Subscriptions, 4 updates for one year (*note Tape & CD-ROM Subscription Service::.):

Emacs		$600	  $630	    $690      $645	$615	 $675
Languages	$600	  $630	    $690      $645	$615	 $675
Utilities	$600	  $630	    $690      $645	$615	 $675
X11R6-Required	$600	  $630	    $690      $645	$615	 $675

      Subtotal $ ______	 Please put total of the above circled amounts here.


These 1600 bpi reel-to-reel 9 track 1/2" tapes, in VMS BACKUP format (aka
interchange format) (*note VMS Emacs and VMS Compiler Tapes::.):

____ @ $195  = $ ______	  VMS Emacs, GNU Emacs source & executables only.

____ @ $195  = $ ______	  VMS Compiler, GCC, GAS, and Bison source and
			   executables only.


FSF Deluxe Distribution (*note Deluxe Distribution::.):
......................................................


____ @ $5000 = $ ______	  The Deluxe Distribution, with manuals, etc.

Machine: _____________________________________________________________________

Operating system: ____________________________________________________________

Media type: __________________________________________________________________



CD-ROMs, in ISO 9660 format (*note CD-ROMs::.):
..............................................


GNU Source Code CD-ROM, Version 6 with X11R6 (*note June 1995 Source Code CD-ROM::.):

____ @ $240  = $ ______	  for corporations and other organizations.

____ @ $ 60  = $ ______	  for individuals.



GNU Compiler Tools Binaries CD-ROM, Version 2, December 1994 Edition
(*note Compiler Tools Binaries CD-ROM::.):

____ @ $220  = $ ______	  for corporations and other organizations.

____ @	$55  = $ ______	  for individuals.



Debian GNU/Linux Book with CD-ROM - expected late fall 1995 (*note Debian GNU/Linux CD-ROM::.):

____ @ $200  = $ ______	  for corporations and other organizations.

____ @	$50  = $ ______	  for individuals.


Subscriptions, next 4 updates, of the Source Code CD-ROM, in ISO 9660 format
(*note Tape & CD-ROM Subscription Service::.):

____ @ $720  = $ ______	  for corporations and other organizations.

____ @ $180  = $ ______	  for individuals.



MS-DOS Software
---------------

MS-DOS Book with CD-ROM - expected September 1995 (*note MS-DOS CD-ROM::.):

____ @ $180  = $ ______	  for corporations and other organizations.

____ @	$45  = $ ______	  for individuals.



The following sources and executables for MS-DOS, on 3.5" 1.44MB diskettes
(*note MS-DOS Diskettes::.):

____ @ $ 90  = $ ______	  Emacs diskettes, GNU Emacs, for 80386 and up.

____ @ $ 80  = $ ______	  DJGPP diskettes, GCC version 2, for 80386 and up
			   (also on the *note Compiler Tools Binaries CD-ROM::. and *note MS-DOS CD-ROM::..)
____ @ $ 85  = $ ______	  Selected Utilities diskettes, 8086 and up.

____ @ $ 40  = $ ______	  Windows diskette, GNU Chess and gnuplot for
			   Microsoft Windows.


Manuals
-------

These manuals (*note Documentation::.).	 Please call for bulk purchase
discounts.

____ @ $300  = $ ______	  One copy each of the following 13 manuals.

____ @ $ 25  = $ ______	  GNU Emacs version manual, with a reference card.

____ @ $ 50  = $ ______	  GNU Emacs Lisp Reference manual, in two volumes.

____ @ $ 50  = $ ______	  Using and Porting GNU CC.

____ @ $ 50  = $ ______	  GNU C Library Reference Manual.

____ @ $ 50  = $ ______	  GNU Emacs Calc manual, with a reference card.

____ @ $ 20  = $ ______	  Programming in Emacs Lisp, An Introduction

____ @ $ 20  = $ ______	  Debugging with GDB, with a reference card.

____ @ $ 20  = $ ______	  Gawk manual.

____ @ $ 20  = $ ______	  Make manual.

____ @ $ 20  = $ ______	  Bison manual, with a reference card.

____ @ $ 20  = $ ______	  Flex manual, with a reference card.

____ @ $ 20  = $ ______	  Texinfo manual.

____ @ $ 15  = $ ______	  Termcap manual.



Reference Cards
---------------

The following reference cards, in packets of ten.  For single copies please
call.

____ @ $ 10  = $ ______	  GNU Emacs version 19 reference cards.

____ @ $ 10  = $ ______	  GNU Emacs Calc reference cards.

____ @ $ 10  = $ ______	  GDB reference cards.

____ @ $ 10  = $ ______	  Bison reference cards.

____ @ $ 10  = $ ______	  Flex reference cards.



T-shirts
--------

GNU/FSF T-shirts, thick 100% cotton (*note FSF T-shirt::.):

____ @ $ 15  = $ ______	  Size M     ____ natural  ____ black.

____ @ $ 15  = $ ______	  Size L     ____ natural  ____ black.

____ @ $ 15  = $ ______	  Size XL    ____ natural  ____ black.

____ @ $ 15  = $ ______	  Size XXL   ____ natural  ____ black.



Older Items
-----------

Older items are only available while supplies last.

____ @ $  5  = $ ______	  GNU Emacs version 18 reference cards, in packets
			   of ten.

Please fill in the number of each older CD-ROM you order:

						for		for
						corporations	individuals:
						and other
						organizations:

GNU Compiler Tools Binaries CD-ROM
	December 1993 Edition (Version 1)	____________	____________


GNU Source Code CD-ROM
	May 1994 edition with X11R6		____________	____________

GNU Source Code CD-ROM
	November 1993 edition with X11R5	____________	____________

GNU Source Code CD-ROM
	May 1993 edition with X11R5		____________	____________

GNU Source Code CD-ROM
	October 1992 edition with X11R5		____________	____________


Please put the total count and cost of the above older CD-ROMs here:

____ @ $ 80  = $ ______	  for corporations and other organizations.

____ @ $ 20  = $ ______	  for individuals.

		 ======

      Subtotal $ ______



Tax and Shipping Costs
----------------------

	     + $ ______	  In Massachusetts: add 5% sales tax, or give tax
			  exempt number.
	     + $ ______	  In Alaska, Hawaii, or Puerto Rico for shipping:
			  for GNU Emacs Lisp Reference and GNU Emacs Calc
			  manuals, add $5 *each*.  For *each* tape or
			  CD-ROM subscription, add $20.	 For all other
			  items, add $5 base charge, then $1 per item except
			  reference cards; i.e.,
			  shipping for all other items = $5 + ($1 * i).
	     + $ ______	  Outside of U.S., Canada, and Puerto Rico for
			  shipping:  Add $20 base charge; then add $80 more
			  for *each* tape or CD-ROM subscription; and then
			  add $10 more for *each* manual in the order;
			  i.e., shipping for all other items
					     = $20 + ($80 * s) + ($10 * m).
	     + $ ______	  Optional (tax-deductible in the U.S.) donation.
		 ------	  We suggest 5% if paying by credit card.

	 TOTAL $ ______	  We pay for shipping via UPS ground transportation in
			  the contiguous 48 states and Canada.	For very
			  large orders, ask about actual shipping costs for
			  that order.



Shipping Information
--------------------

Name: ________________________________________________________________________

Mail Stop/Dept. Name: ________________________________________________________

Organization: ________________________________________________________________

Street Address: ______________________________________________________________

City/State/Province: _________________________________________________________

Zip Code/Postal Code/Country: ________________________________________________

Telephone number in case of a problem with your order.
For international orders, please include a FAX number. _______________________


------------------------------------------------------------------------------
|									     |
|  Orders filled only upon receipt of check, money order or credit card	     |
|  order in U.S. dollars.  Unpaid orders will be returned to the sender.     |
|  We do not have the staff to handle the billing of unpaid orders.  Please  |
|  help keep our lives simple by including your payment with your order.     |
|									     |
------------------------------------------------------------------------------


For orders from outside the U.S.:
---------------------------------

You are responsible for paying all duties, tariffs, and taxes.	If you
refuse to pay the charges, the shipper will return or abandon the order.


 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------
 |									   |
 |	Please make checks payable to the ``Free Software Foundation''.	   |
 |									   |
 ---------------------------------------------------------------------------


For Credit Card Orders:
-----------------------

The Free Software Foundation takes these credit cards: Carte Blanche,
Diner's Club, JCB, Mastercard, Visa, or American Express.  Please note that
we are charged about 5% of an order's total amount in credit card
processing fees.  Please consider paying by check instead, or adding on a
5% donation to make up the difference.	To place a credit card order,
please give us this information:


Card type: ___________________________________________________________________

Account Number: ______________________________________________________________

Expiration Date: _____________________________________________________________

Cardholder's Signature: ______________________________________________________



------------------------------------------------------------------------------
|									     |
|     If you wish to pay by wire transfer, or you are a reseller, please     |
|     call or write us for details.					     |
|									     |
------------------------------------------------------------------------------


		Please mail orders to:	Free Software Foundation
					59 Temple Place -- Suite 330
					Boston, MA   02111
					+1-617-542-5942
					FAX (including Japan): +1-617-542-2652
					Free Dial FAX numbers in Japan:
PRICES AND CONTENTS MAY CHANGE				0031-13-2473 (KDD)
WITHOUT NOTICE AFTER January 31, 1996.			0066-3382-0158 (IDC)

Version: June 1995 ASCII Bull to June 1995 Src CD/GNU 19.29/GCC 2.7.0

---------------------------------------------------------------------
local variables:
mode: text
fill-column: 78
end:
